 
  
Prepared by:  (1 April  2018  – to date ) 
 
[This is the  current  version and applies as  from  1 April 2018 , i.e. the date of commencement of certain sections of the Financial Sector 
Regulation Act 9 of 2017  – to date ] 
  
COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES CONTROL ACT 45 OF 2002  
 
(Gazette No. 24182, dated 13 December 2002 . Commencement date:  3 March 2003, Proc. No.R.18, 
Gazette No.25007 ) 
 
_______________  
(English text signed by the President.)  
(Assented to 9 December 2002.)  
_______________  
 
As amended by  
 
(Revenue Laws Amendment Act 35 of 200 7 – Gazette No. 30656 , dated 8 January  200 8. Commencement 
date: 1 July  2008, Gazette No. 30656 ) 
 
(Taxation Laws Amendment Act 3 of 200 8 – Gazette No. 31267 , dated 2 2 July  200 8. Commencement date: 
1 July  2008, Gazette No. 3 1267 ) 
 
(Financial Services  Laws  General  Amendment Act 22 of 2008 – Gazette No. 31 471, dated 30 September  
2008. Commencement date: 1 November 2008, Notice  No. 1170 , Gazette No. 31561 ) 
 
(Financial Markets Act 19 of 20 12 – Gazette No. 31621 , dated 1 February 2013. Commencement date: 3 
June  2013, Notice No. 12, Gazette No. 36485 ) 
 
(Financial Services Laws General Amendment Act 45 of 20 13 – Gazette No. 3 7237 , dated 16 January  2014. 
Commencement date: 28 February  2014, Notice No.1 20, Gazette No.3 7351 ) 
 
Financial Sector Regulation Act 9 of 2017  - Government Notice 853  in Government Gazette 41060  dated 22 
August 2017 . Commencement date  of certain sections : 1 April 2018  [GenN 169  in Gazette 41549  dated 29 
March 2018 ] 
 
ACT  
 
To regulate and control the establishment and administration of collective investment schemes; to 
amend or repeal certain laws; and to provide for incidental matters.  
 
BE IT ENACTED by the Parliament of the Republic of South Africa, as follows:  - Page 2 of 77 
 
  
Prepared by:   
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS  
 
Sections  
PART I  
COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES  
 
#1. Definitions  
#1A.  Relationship between Act and Financial Sector Regulation Act  
#1B.  Regulatory instruments  
#2. Principles for administration of collective investment scheme  
#3. Disclosur e of information  
#4. Duties of manager  
#5. Requirement for the administration of collective investment schemes  and application of Act  
#6. Prohibition of misleading names and acts  
#7. ………repealed  
#8. ……… repealed  
#9. …… …repealed  
#10. …… …repealed  
#11. …… …repealed  
#12. …… …repealed  
#13. …… …repealed  
 
PART II  
FUNCTIONS OF REGISTRAR  
 
#14.  ………. repealed  
#15. Powers of registrar after investigation  
#15A .   Powers of registrar in respect of financial soundness requirement  
#15B .  ………. repealed  
#16. Cancellation or suspension of registration of manager  
#17. Registrar may object to certain documents  
#18. Power of registrar to impose fines  
#19. Power of registrar to request audit  
#20. Attendance of meetings of association and furnishing of certain documents to registrar  
#21. ………. repealed  
#22. Exemptions  
#23. ………. repealed  
#24. ………. repealed  
 
PART III  
ASSOCIATION OF COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES  Page 3 of 77 
 
  
Prepared by:   
#25. Application for association licence  
#26. Issue or renewal of association licence  
#27. Refusal of renewal of association licence  
#28. Cancellation or suspension of association licence  
#29. Restriction on use of name or description implying connection with association  
#30. Delegation of functions of executive committee  
#31. Suspension of administration of collective investment scheme  
#32. Rules of associatio n 
#33. Power of court to declare member disqualified  
#34. Voluntary dissolution of association  
#35. Winding -up of association by court  
#36. Business rescue of association  
#37. Appointment of liquidator  
#38. Report by association to registrar  
 
PART IV  
COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES IN SECURITIES  
 
#39. Definition  
#40. Determination of securities or classes of securities  
#41. Restrictions on administration of collective investment scheme in securities  
#42. Procedure for registration of manager of collective investment sc heme in securities  
#43. Change of name of manager, portfolio or collective investment scheme in securities and change of shareholding or directors and removal of appointees  
#44. Determination of market price of securities  
#45. Foreign securities in which collective investment scheme in securities may invest  
#46. Limitation on investment in portfolio  
 
PART V  
COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES IN PROPERTY  
 
#47. Definitions  
#48. Restrictions on administration of collective investment scheme in property  
#49. Foreign country in which collective investment scheme in property may invest  
#50. Listing of participatory interests by exchange  
#51. Certain provisions of Part IV to apply in respect of manager of collective investment scheme in property  
 
PART VI  
COLLECTIVE INVESTM ENT SCHEMES IN PARTICIPATION BONDS  
 
#52. Definitions
 
  
Prepared by:  53. Restrictions on administration of collective investment scheme in participation bonds  
#54. Restrictions on business of collective investment scheme in participation bonds  
#55. Capacity of manager  
#56. Registration of participation bonds in name of nominee company  
#57. Rights of participant  
#58. Minimum investment period  
#59. Participatory interests rank in preference concurrently  
#60. Restrictions on rights of nominee company  
#61. Collateral security in respec t of participation bonds  
 
PART VII  
DECLARED COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES  
 
#62. Definition  
#63. Declaration of specific type of business as collective investment scheme for purposes of Act  
#64. Certain provisions to apply in respect of declared collective investment scheme  
 
PART VIII  
FOREIGN COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES  
 
#65. Restrictions on foreign collective investment scheme to carry on business in Republic  
#66. Reciprocity  
#67. Withdrawal of approval of foreign collective investment scheme  
 
PART IX  
TRUSTEE OR CUSTODIAN  
 
#68. Appointment and termination of appointment of trustee or custodian  
#69. Qualifications and registration of trustee or custodian  
#70. Duties of trustee or custodian  
#71. Status of assets  
#72. Liability of trustee or custodian in respec t of loss of assets  
 
PART X  
AUDITOR  
 
#73. Appointment and approval of auditor  
#74. Accounting records and audit  
#75. Duty of auditor to disclose irregularity or undesirable practice  
 
PART XI  
CONVERSION OF COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME
    
#76. Definitions  
#77. Conversion of collective investment scheme  
#78. Application for registrar's approval  
#79. Consideration of application  
#80. Resolution by investors  
#81. Registration of Memorandum of Incorporation by Companies and Intellectual Property Commission  
#82. Certifica te of registration of conversion and notice in Gazette  
#83. Effects of conversion  
#84. Issue of participatory interests to persons who were investors in former collective investment scheme  
 
PART XII  
GENERAL  
 
#85. Restrictions on assets which may be included in or lent by portfolio of collective investment scheme  
#86. Business capacity of manager  
#87. Definition  
#88. Capital requirement which manager must maintain  
#89. Obligation of manager to maintain capital requirement and failure or inability to comply  
#90. Financial statements and other information to be furnished by manager  
#91. Exercise of voting power by manager  
#92. Unauthorised gain derived from acquisition of assets  
#93. Permissible deductions from portfolio  
#94. Calculation of price and limitation of amou nt of rounding -off accrual  
#95. Sale of participatory interests only on payment of full purchase price and restriction on the lending or borrowing of money  
#96. Power of manager to borrow money to bridge liquid asset shortfalls of portfolio  
#97. Matters which  must be provided for in deed  
#98. Void provisions of deed and amendment of deed  
#99. Amalgamation of business of collective investment schemes or portfolios and cession, transfer or take over of rights of investors  
#100 . Contents of price list, advertisement , brochure and similar document  
#101 . Principal office and public officer in Republic  
#102 . Winding -up of portfolio of collective investment scheme  
#103 . Manner of dealing with trust property on winding -up of portfolio  
#104 . Separation of assets of portfolio handed to or received by manager, trustee or custodian  
#105 . Separation of funds of investors and other persons  
#106 . False or misleading statements  
#107 . Fraudulently inducing person to purchase or deal in participatory interests  
#108 . Evidence  
#109 . Liability  for loss  
#110 . Certain written matter to bear names of certain persons 
#111 . Application of Companies Act in relation to manager  
#111A.  Business rescue of manager  
#112 . Delegation of functions  
#113 . Exemption from Act 57 of 1988  
#114 . Regulations by Minister an d notices by registrar  
#115 . Offences  
#116 . Penalties  
#117 . Repeal or amendment of laws and savings  
#118 . Short title  
 
SCHEDULE 1  
MATTERS WHICH MUST BE PROVIDED FOR IN DEED OF COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME IN 
SECURITIES  
(SECTION 97)  
 
SCHEDULE 2  
MATTERS WHICH MUST BE PROVIDED FOR IN DEED OF COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME IN 
PROPERTY  
(SECTION 97)  
 
SCHEDULE 3  
LAWS REPEALED OR AMENDED BY THIS ACT  
(SECTION 117)  
 
SCHEDULE 4  
MATTERS TO BE PROVIDED FOR IN RULES OF ASSOCIATION  
(SECTION 32)  
 
(Arrangement of Sections amended  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
 
PART I  
COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES  
#\ 
1. Definitions  
 
(1) In this Act, unless the context indicates otherwise  - 
 
"administration"  means any function performed in connection with a collective investment scheme 
including  - 
 
(a) the management or control of a collective investment scheme;  
 Page 7 of 77 
 
  
Prepared by:  (b) the receipt, payment or investment of money or other assets, including income accruals, in 
respect of a collective investment scheme;  
 
(c) the sale, repurchase, issue or cancellation of a participatory interest in a collective investment 
scheme and the giving of advice or disclosure of information on any of those matters to investors 
or potential investors; and  
 
(d) the buying and selling of assets or the handing over thereof to a trustee or custodian for safe 
custody;  
 
"advisory committee"  ……..  
(Definition of “advisory committee” deleted by s ection  208 (a) of Act 45 of 2013 ) 
 
"assets"  means the investments comprising or constituting a portfolio of a collective investment scheme 
and includes any income accruals derived or resulting from the investments in the portfolio which are 
held for or are due to the investors in that portfolio;  
 
"association"  means an association licensed in terms of section 26;  
 
"auditor"  means a person registered under the Public Accountants' and Auditors' Act, 1991 (Act No. 
80 of 1991), and appointed by a manager in terms of section 73;  
 
"authorised agent"  means  a person authorised by a manager to solicit investments in a portfolio from 
members of the public or to perform a function contemplated in the definition of "administration" , and 
includes any person to whom a function has been delegated in terms of sectio n 4(5) ; 
(Definition of “authorised agent” substituted by s ection  208(b) of Act 45 of 2013 ) 
 
“Authority ” means the Financial  Sector Conduct Authority established  by section 56 of the Financial  
Sector Regulation Act;  
(Definition of “Authority” inserted by se ction 290 of Act 9 of 2017, with effect from 1 April 2018)  
 
"Board"  ……….  
(Definition of “ Board ” deleted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017, with effect from 1 April 2018)  
 
"close corporation"  means a close corporation incorporated in accordance with the Close 
Corporations Act, 1984 (Act No. 69 of 1984);  
 
"collective investment scheme"  means a scheme, in whatever form, including an open -ended 
investment company, in pursuance of which members of  the public are invited or permitted to invest 
money or other assets in a portfolio, and in terms of which  - 
(a) two or more investors contribute money or other assets to and hold a participatory interest in a 
portfolio of the scheme through shares, units  or any other form of participatory interest; and  
 
(b) the investors share the risk and the benefit of investment in proportion to their participatory interest 
in a portfolio of a scheme or on any other basis determined in the deed,  
 
but not a collective i nvestment scheme authorised by any other Act;  
 
‘Companies Act’ means the Companies Act, 2008 (Act No. 71 of  2008);  
(Definition of “ Companies Act ” substituted by s ection  208( c) of Act 45 of 2013 ) 
 
"company"  means a company as defined in the Companies Act;  
(Definition of “ company ” substituted by s ection  208( d) of Act 45 of 2013 ) 
 
“conduct  standard ” has the same meaning ascribed to it in terms of section 1(1) of the Financial Sector 
Regulation Act;  
(Definition of “ conduct standard ” inserted by section 290 of A ct 9 of 2017, with effect from 1 April 2018)  
 
"court"  means any division of the High Court of South Africa having jurisdiction;  
 
"custodian"  means a custodian appointed in terms of section 68;  
 
"deed"  means the agreement between a manager and a trustee or custodian, or the document of 
incorporation whereby a collective investment scheme is established and in te rms of which it is 
administered  and includes  – 
 
(i) the deed of a management company which im mediately prior to the commencement of this Act 
was a management company in terms of any law repealed by this Act ; and  
 
(ii) a supplemental deed entered into in terms of a deed . 
(Definition of “ deed ” substituted by s ection  208( e) of Act 45 of 2013 ) 
 
"exchange"  means an exchange licensed under the Stock Exchanges Control Act, 1985 (Act No. 1 of 
1985), the Financial Markets Control Act, 1989 (Act No. 55 of 1989), or an exchange outside the 
Republic referred to in section 45;  
 
"exchange securities"  means  securities which are listed and authorised to be dealt in on an exchange, 
and the prices of which are quoted in a list issued for publication by such exchange;  
 
“Financial  Sector  Regulation  Act ” means the Financial Sector Regulation Act, 2017;  
(Definition  of “ Financial Sector Regulation Act ” inserted by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017, with effect from 1 
April 2018)   
"income accruals"  means any dividends or interest or any other income for distribution received by the 
trustee, custodian or manager on behalf o f investors in a portfolio in the course of any income distribution 
period or carried forward from  any previous income distribution period or due to such investors in respect 
of dividends or interest or any other income declarations made but not yet distributed;  
 
"investor"  means the holder of a participatory interest in a portfolio in the Republic;  
 
“joint  standard ” has the same meaning ascribed to it in terms of section 1(1) of the Financial Sector 
Regulation Act;  
(Definition of “ joint standard ” inserted by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017, with effect from 1 April 2018)  
 
"manager"  means a person who is authorised in terms of this Act to administer a collective investment 
scheme;  
 
"members of the public"  includes  - 
 
(a) members of any section of the p ublic, whether selected as clients, members, shareholders, 
employees or ex -employees of the person issuing an invitation to acquire a participatory interest 
in a portfolio; and  
 
(b) a financial institution regulated by any law,  
 
but excludes persons confin ed to a restricted circle of individuals with a common interest who receive 
the invitation in circumstances which can properly be regarded as a domestic or private business venture 
between those persons and the person issuing the invitation;  
 
"Minister"  me ans the Minister of Finance;  
 
“official web site ” ……….  
(Definition of “ official web -site ” inserted  by s ection  208( f) of Act 45 of 2013 ) 
(Definition of “ official web site ” deleted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017, with effect from 1 April 2018)  
 
"open -ended investment company"  means a company with an authorised share capital, which is 
structured in such a manner that it provides for the issuing of different classes of shares to investors, 
each class of share representing a separate portfolio with a distinct i nvestment policy;  
 
"participatory interest"  means any interest, undivided share or share whether called a participatory 
interest, unit or by any other name, and whether the value of such interest, unit, undivided share or 
share remains constant or varies f rom time to time, which may be acquired by an investor in a portfolio;  
"portfolio"  means a group of assets including any amount of cash in which members of the public are 
invited or permitted by a manager to acquire, pursuant to a collective investment sc heme, a participatory 
interest or a participatory interest of a specific class which as a result of its specific characteristics differs 
from another class of participatory interests;  
 
"prescribed"  ……….  
(Definition of “ prescribed ” deleted  by section 290 of  Act 9 of 2017, with effect from 1 April 2018)  
 
“prudential  standard ” has the same meaning ascribed to it in terms of section 1(1) of the Financial 
Sector Regulation Act;  
(Definition of “ prudential standard ” inserted by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017, with effect from 1 April 2018)  
 
‘publish’ means any direct or indirect communication transmitted by  any medium, or any representation 
or reference written, inscribed,  recorded, encoded upon or embedded within any medium, by means of  
which a person, other than t he registrar, seeks to bring any information to  the attention of any other 
person, or all or part of the public;  
(Definition of “ publish ” inserted  by s ection  208( g) of Act 45 of 2013 ) 
 
“Register ” means the Financial Sector Information Register referred to in section 256 of the Financial 
Sector Regulation Act;  
(Definition of “ Register ” inserted by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017, with effect from 1 April 2018)  
 
"registrar"  ……….  
(Definition of “ registrar ” substituted by s ection  208( h) of Act 45 of 2013 ) 
(Definition of “ registrar ” deleted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017, with effect from 1 April 2018)  
 
"regulation"  means a regulation made under this Act;  
 
"rule"  means a rule referred to in section 32;  
 
"sell"  or "repurchase"  includes exchange;  
 
"solicit"  means any act to promote investment by members of the public in a collective investment 
scheme;  
 
"this Act"  includes a regulation, notice, rule and any other measure having the force of law made under 
this Act;  
 
“Tribunal ” means the Financial Sector Tribuna l established in terms of section 219 of the Financial 
Sector Regulation Act;  
(Definition of “ Tribunal ” inserted by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017, with effect from 1 April 2018)  
"trustee"  means the trustee appointed in terms of section 68.  
 
(2)  Unless the  context otherwise indicates, words and expressions not defined in subsection (1) have the 
same meaning ascribed to them in terms of the Financial Sector Regulation Act.  
(Section 1 (2) added, the existing section becoming subsection (1),  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with 
effect from 1 April 2018 )
#\
 
#\ 
1A.  Relationship between Act and Financial Sector Regulation Act  
 
(1)  A reference in this Act to the registrar must be read as a reference to the Authority.  
(Section 1 A(1)  inserted  by secti on 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
 
(2)  Except as otherwise provided by this Act or the Financial Sector Regulation Act, the powers and duties 
of the Authority in terms of this Act are in addition to the powers and duties that it has in terms of the 
Financial Sector Regulation Act.  
(Section 1 A(2)  inserted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
 
(3)  A reference in this Act to the Authority determining or publishing a matter by notice in the Gazette  must 
be read  as including a reference to the Authority determining or publishing the matter by notice published 
in the Register.  
(Section 1 A(3)  inserted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
 
(4)  Unless expressly provided otherwise in this A ct, a reference in this Act to a matter being — 
 
(a)  prescribed must be read as a reference to the matter being prescribed in a prudential standard, 
a conduct standard or a joint standard; or  
 
(b)  determined must be read as a reference to the Authority de termining the matter in writing and 
registering the determination in the Register.  
(Section 1 A(4)  inserted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from a date to be determined by notice in 
the Gazette ) 
 
(5)  A reference in this Act to an onsite  visit in terms of a provision in this  Act must be read as a reference 
to a supervisory  on-site inspection in terms of  the Financial Sector Regulation Act.   
(Section 1 A(5)  inserted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
 
(6)  A reference in this Act to an inspection  in terms of a provision of this  Act must be read as a reference to 
an investigation in terms of the Financial  Sector Regulation Act.  
(Section 1 A(6)  inserted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
 
(7)
(a)  A reference in this Act to the  Authority announcing or publishing information  or a document on a 
web site  must be read as a reference to the Authority  publishing the information or  document in 
the Register.  
 
(b)  The Authority may also publish  the inf ormation or document on its web  site.  
(Section 1 A(7)  inserted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
 
(8)  A reference in this Act to a determined  or prescribed fee must be read as  a reference to the relevant fee 
determined  in term s of section 237 and Chapter  16 of the Financial Sector Regulation  Act.  
(Section 1 A(8)  inserted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from  a date to be determined)  
(Commencement date postponed by GN 257 of 25 March 2021 .) 
(Commencement  date postponed by GenN 942 of 31 March 2022)  
 
(9)  A reference in this Act to an appeal  of a decision of the Authority must  be read as a reference to a 
reconsideration  of the decision by the Tribunal in  terms of the Financial Sector Regulation  Act.  
(Section 1 A(9)  inserted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
#\
 
#\
1B.  Regulatory instruments  
 
For the purposes of the definition  of “regulatory instrument ” in section  1(1) of the Financial Sector 
Regulation  Act, any matter prescribed by the  Authority in respect of which notice in  the Gazette  is 
specifically required by  this Act is a regulatory instrument.  
(Section 1 B inserted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
#\
 
#\
2. Principles for administration of collective investment scheme  
 
(1) A manager must administer a collective investment scheme honestly and fairly, with skill, care and 
diligence and in the interest of investors and the collective investment scheme industry.  
 
(2) The assets of an investor must be properly protected by application of the principle of segregation and 
identification.
#\ 
 
#\
3. Disclosure of information  
 
Before entering into a transaction with an investor  - 
 
(a) information about the investment objectives of the collective investment scheme, the calculation 
of the nett asset value and dealing prices, charges, risk factors an d distribution of income accruals 
must be disclosed to the investor; and  
 
(b) information that is necessary to enable the investor to make an informed decision must be given 
to the investor timeously and in a comprehensible manner.
#\

#\  
4. Duties of manager  
 
(1) The manager must avoid conflict between the interests of the manager and the interests of an investor.  
 
(2) The manager must disclose the interests of its directors and management to the investors.  
 
(3) A manager must maintain adequate financial resourc es to meet its commitments and to manage the 
risks to which its collective investment scheme is exposed.  
 
(4) A manager must  - 
 
(a) organise and control the collective investment scheme in a responsible manner;  
 
(b) keep proper records;  
 
(c) employ adequately trained staff and ensure that they are properly supervised;  
 
(d) have well -defined compliance procedures;  
 
(e) maintain an open and cooperative relationship with the office of the registrar and must promptly 
inform that office about anything tha t might reasonably be expected to be disclosed to such office; 
and  
 
(f) promote investor education, either directly or through initiatives undertaken by an association.  
 
(5)   
(a)  A manager may, with the approval of the registrar and in writing,  delegate any function listed in 
the definition of ‘administration’ to any person (in  this section referred to as the ‘delegated 
person’).  
 
(b)  Anything done or omitted to be done by the delegated person in the  performance of a function so 
delegated, must be regard ed as having been done or  omitted by the manager.  
 
(c)  The registrar has, in respect of a delegated person, all the powers and duties  conferred or 
imposed upon the registrar in respect of a manager.  
 
(d)  If a manager delegated any function listed in the definition of ‘administration’  to any person without 
the prior approval of the registrar before the  commencement of section 209 of the Financial 
Services Laws General  Amendment  Act, 2013, that delegation must be regarded as having been 
made in terms of  par agraph (a) for a period of six months, reckoned from the date of such 
commencement, during which period the manager must apply for approval, and  after the 
expiration of that six -month period, the deemed period will expire .  
(Section 4(5) added  by section 209 of Act 45 of 20 13)
#\ 
 
#\
5. Requirement for the administration of collective investment schemes  and application of Act  
 
(1) No person may perform any act or enter into any agreement or transaction for the purpose of 
administering a collective investment scheme, unless such person  - 
 
(a) is registered as a manager by the registrar or is an authorised agent; or  
 
(b) is exempted from the provisions of this Act by the registrar by notice on the official web site . 
(Section 5(1)(b)  substituted  by section 2 10 of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(2) The provisions of this Act do not apply to the rendering of securities services by any “authorised user”. 
“clearing member”, “licensed central securities depository”  “licensed clearing house”, “licensed 
exchange” or “participant” as defined in section 1 of the Financial Markets Act, 2012 to the extent that 
the rendering of those services are specifically supervised under that Act.  
(Section 5 substituted  by section 111 of Act 19 of 20 12) 
#\

#\ 
6. Prohibition of misleading names and acts  
 
(1) Subject to subsection (2), no person may, except if registered as a manager under this Act, or with the 
specific permission of the registrar pending the lodging and disposal of an application by such person 
for registration as a manager under this Act , or pending the change of the name of his or her business, 
include in or have as part of the name of his or her business or in any description of his or her business 
any reference to a collective investment scheme, open -ended investment company, participa tory 
interest, portfolio, unit, unit trust or mutual fund or any derivative thereof, and no person who is not 
registered as a manager or trustee or custodian under this Act or is not an authorised agent may perform 
any act calculated to lead the public to believe that any business carried on by such person consists of 
or is connected with the administration of a collective investment scheme.  
 
(2) The registrar may on application by a person who is required to change his or her name by virtue of 
subsection (1) allow such person to effect such change on the conditions and within the period, not 
exceeding 6 months, determined by the registrar.  
 
(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) is guilty of an offence. 
#\ 
 
#\
7. ……….  
 (Section 7 substituted by section 2 11 of Act 45 of 2013)  
(Section 7 repealed by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 )
#\ 

#\
8. ……. 
(Section 8 repealed by section 2 12 of Act 45 of 2013)
#\
  
#\ 
9. ……..  
(Section 9 repealed by section 2 12 of Act 45 of 2013)  
#\

#\ 
10.  ………  
(Section 10 repealed by section 2 12 of Act 45 of 2013)
#\
  
#\ 
11.  ……..  
(Section 11 repealed by section 2 12 of Act 45 of 2013) 
#\
 
#\ 
12.  ……….  
(Section 12 repealed by section 2 12 of Act 45 of 2013)
#\  
 
#\
13.  ……….  
(Section  13 repealed by section 2 12 of Act 45 of 2013) 
#\ 
 
PART II  
FUNCTIONS  OF REGISTRAR  

#\ 
14.  ………..  
(Section 14 substituted by section 2 13 of Act 45 of 2013)  
(Section 14 repealed by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 )
#\ 
 
#\
15.  Powers of registrar after investigation  
 
(1) If it is in the interests of  the inves tors of a collective investment  scheme or of members of the  public , the 
Authority may — 
(Words preceding s ection 1 5(1)(a)  substituted by section 21 4(a)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
(Words preceding s ection 1 5(1)(a)  substituted by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
 
(a) apply to the court under the Companies Act for the winding -up of a manager or of a collective 
investment scheme;  
(Section 1 5(1)(a)  substituted  by section 21 4(b) of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(b) ….… 
(Section 1 5(1)(b)  deleted by section 21 4(c)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(c) apply to the court under section 5 of the Financial Institutions (Protection of Funds) Act, 2001 (Act 
No. 28 of 2001), for the appointment of a curator for the business of the manager or for the 
business of a portfoli o;   
(d) require a manager to appoint, in accordance with the registrar's directions, in place of the serving 
trustee or custodian, a competent person nominated by the registrar;  
 
(e) require a manager to take steps, in accordance with the registrar's direc tions and the provisions 
of section 102, for the winding -up of a portfolio of its collective investment scheme, and for the 
realisation of the assets and the distribution of the net proceeds thereof, together with any income 
accruals or other moneys availa ble for distribution among the investors in proportion to their 
respective participatory interests;  
 
(f) direct a manager or trustee or custodian to take any steps, or to refrain from performing or 
continuing to perform any act, in order to terminate or re medy any irregularity or undesirable 
practice or state of affairs disclosed by an investigation or inspection . 
(Section 1 5(1)(f)  substituted by section 63 of Act 22 of 2008 ) 
(Proviso to paragraph (f) of s ection 15(1)  deleted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017 , with effect from 1 April 
2018 ) 
 
(g) direct a manager to withdraw from the administration of a collective investment scheme, 
whereupon the trustee or custodian must in accordance with the registrar's directions but subject 
to this Act arrange for another manager to take over the administration of the collective investment 
scheme;  
(Section 1 5(1)(g)  amended by section 21 4(d)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(h) if a person administers a collective investment scheme in contravention of this Act, apply to the 
court to have  the collective investment scheme wound up, in which case the court may make any 
order it considers appropriate for the winding -up of the collective investment scheme ; 
(Section 1 5(1)(h)  added by section 21 4(d)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(i)  instruct a manager to  wind up a portfolio or amalgamate a portfolio with another portfolio;  
(Section 1 5(1)(i)  added by section 21 4(d)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(j)  if a manager fails to comply  with a written request, direction  or directive by the Authority under 
this Act or the  Fin ancial Sector Regulation  Act, do or cause to be done all  that a manager was 
required to  do in terms of the request,  direction or directive of the  Authority . 
(Section 1 5(1)(j)  added by section 21 4(d)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
(Section 1 5(1)(j)  substituted by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
 
(2) The registrar may oppose any applicatio n in terms of the Companies Act for - 
(Words preceding s ection 1 5(2)  substituted by section 21 4(e)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(a) the winding -up of a manager;  or 
(Section 1 5(2) (a) amended  by section 21 4(f) of Act 45 of 2013)    
(b) ….. … 
(Section 1 5(2)(b)  deleted by section 21 4(f)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(c) the winding -up of a portfolio of a collective investment scheme in terms of section 102.  
 
(3) Any person who intends to make an application contemplated in subsection (2) must give timeous notice 
of such application to the registrar.  
 
(4) A person who refuses or fails to comply with a request or direction referred to in paragraphs (d), (e), (f) 
or (g) of subsecti on (1) is guilty of an offence and on conviction liable to a fine  not exceeding R10 million 
or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 10 year s or to both such  fine and such imprisonment.  
(Section 1 5(4) substituted  by section 21 4(g) of Act 45 of 2013)
#\  

#\ 
15A .   Powers of registrar in respect of financial soundness requirement  
 
(1)  If the registrar is satisfied that a manager, trustee or custodian is  failing, or is likely to fail within a 
reasonable period, to comply with an  applicable financial soundness requirement under this Act, the 
registrar  may by notice direct the manager, trustee or custodian to furnish the  registrar, within a specified 
period, with  — 
 
(a)  specified information relating to the nature and cause of the failure;  and  
 
(b)  proposals as  to the course of action that the manager, trustee or  custodian must adopt to ensure 
compliance with the financial  soundness requirement under this Act.  
 
(2)  When the registrar has received the information and proposals  referred to in subsection (1), the registrar 
may, without derogating from the  registrar’s powers under any other provision of this Act  — 
 
(a)  by notice authorise the manager, trustee or custodian concerned to  adopt a course of action which 
the registrar is satisfied will reasonably  ensure that the manager, trustee or custodian complies 
with the  financial soundness requirements under this Act;  
 
(b)  at that time or at any time thereafter, by notice authorise the  adjustment of that course of action 
to the extent that the registrar  deems appro priate in the circumstances; or  
 
(c)  if deemed reasonably necessary in the interests of investors, at that time or at any time thereafter, 
and notwithstanding any steps already taken by the Authority . 
(Section 1 5A(2)(c)  substituted by section 290 of Act 9  of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018. Publisher’s 
note  - We are of the view that the intention was to substitute section 15A(2)(c), since section 15A(1) does 
not have a paragraph (c) .) 
(3)  For the purposes of this section, “financial soundness requirement” means any requirement or  limitation 
referred to in sections 85  to 89, inclusive, sections 91 to 96,  inclusive, and section 105 and includes  any 
other financial requirements  imposed under this Act or by  a prudential standard, conduct standard  or 
joint standard . 
(Section 1 5A(3)  substituted by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
 
(Section 15 A inserte d by section 21 5 of Act 45 of 2013)
#\
  
#\ 
15B .  ……….  
 (Section 15 B inserte d by section 21 5 of Act 45 of 2013)  
(Section 15B  repealed by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
#\

#\ 
16.  Cancellation or suspension of registration of manager  
 
(1) The registrar may, subject to subsection (2), cancel the registration of a manager under this Act if  - 
 
(a) he or she is satisfied that the manager has contravened or failed to comply with any provision of 
this Act, or any direction or requirement given or imposed under this Act, and that such 
contravention or failure has resulted or may result in serious prejudice to the  interests of the public 
or of investors;  
 
(b) he or she is satisfied, upon completion of an investigation or inspection in terms of section 14, 
that the manner in which a manager carries on the  business of a collective investment scheme is 
unsatisfactory or undesirable or not calculated to serve the best interests of its investors;  
 
(c) it is apparent that the registration of the manager was obtained through misrepresentation; or  
 
(d) a manager is wound up, either voluntarily or by the court,  
 
or may, on a ny ground referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) suspend the registration of a manager for 
a period not exceeding 12 months at a time subject to such conditions as the registrar may determine.  
 
(2) The registrar may not cancel or suspend the registration  of a manager on any ground contemplated in 
subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) unless he or she has  - 
 
(a) notified the manager of his or her intention and of the grounds upon which he or she proposes to 
do so;  
 
(b) allowed the manager to make representations to him or her in connection with the proposed 
cancellation or suspension; and  
(c) afforded the manager a reasonable opportunity to rectify or eliminate the defect, irregularity or 
undesirable practice.  
 
(3) An application for reregistration as a manager b y a company whose registration has been cancelled 
under this section must be dealt with as if it were its first application for registration.  
 
(4) If the registration of a manager is cancelled in terms of subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c), the provisions of th is 
Act with regard to the continuance or the winding -up of the portfolio of a collective investment scheme 
or the winding -up of the manager apply: Provided that the registrar may in any such case direct the 
former manager to defray in whole or in part the expenses incurred in continuing the administration of 
the collective investment scheme, or in realising any of its assets, and also any remuneration to which 
a trustee or custodian may be entitled.  
 
(5) If the registration of a manager has been suspended u nder subsection (1), the manager may not, during 
the period of suspension, issue any fresh participatory interests, but must, in respect of participatory 
interests issued, continue the administration of the collective investment scheme and deal with such 
interests in all respects as it would have been bound to do had its registration not been suspended.
#\  
 
#\
17.  Registrar may object to certain documents  
 
The registrar may object to the terms of any price list, advertisement, brochure or similar document 
relatin g to a collective investment scheme published or proposed to be published by a manager or any 
of its authorised agents if the registrar considers the terms are calculated to mislead or are, for any other 
good and sufficient reason, objectionable or undesir able, and the registrar may direct the manager to 
discontinue or refrain from publishing or distributing any such document, or to amend its terms. 
#\ 
 
#\
18.  Power of registrar to impose fines  
 
(1) The registrar may impose a fine in the case of any failure  by a manager or third party to submit to the 
registrar or any other person  designated by the registrar, within a period specified in terms of this Act 
any  statement, report, return or other document or information required in terms  of this Act to be 
submitted, not exceeding R 1 000 or such other amount  prescribed by the registrar for every day during 
which the failure continues.  
 
(2)  The registrar must, before imposing a fine, by written notice to the  manager or third party  — 
 
(a)  inform the manager or third party of the registrar's intention to impose a fine;  
 
(b)  specify the particulars of the alleged failure;  
 
(c)  set out the reasons for the intended imposition of a fine;  
(d)  specify the amount of the fine intended to be imposed; and  
 
(e)  call upon the manager or third party to show cause within a period specified by the registrar why 
the fine should not be imposed.  
 
(3)  If the registrar, after consideration of representations made by the  manager or third party, decides to 
impose a fine, t he registrar must by  written notice inform the manager or third party that, not later than 
30 days  after the date of the no tice, the manager or third party must  — 
 
(a) pay the fine; or  
 
(b)  appeal in terms of section 24 against the imposition of the fine to the board of appeal.  
 
(4)  If a manager or third party fails to pay the fine or fails to appeal within  the period referred to in subsection 
(3), the registrar may file with the clerk  or registrar of any competent court a statement certified by the  
registrar as  correct, stating the amount of the fine imposed on the manager or third  party, and such 
statement thereupon has all the effects of a civil judgment  lawfully given in that court in favour of the 
Board for a liquid debt in the  amount specified in the  statement.  
(Section 18 substituted  by section 64 of Act 22 of 200 8) 
#\
 
#\
19.  Power of registrar to request audit  
 
(1) The registrar may direct a manager to have all books of accounts and financial statements audited and 
to submit the results of such an audit  to the registrar within the time specified by the registrar.  
 
(2) Any person who, in respect of an audit contemplated in subsection (1), gives information, an explanation 
or access to records which he or she knows to be false or misleading is guilty of an  offence. 
#\
 
#\ 
20.  Attendance of meetings of association and furnishing of certain documents to registrar  
 
(1) The registrar or a person nominated by him or her may attend any meeting of an association or the 
executive committee of an association or a subcommittee of that committee, and take part in all the non -
voting proceedings at such meeting.  
 
(2) An executive officer of an association must on request furnish the registrar with all notices, minutes and 
documents which are furnished to the members of  the association and the members of the executive 
committee or a subcommittee of that committee. 
#\ 

#\ 
21.  ….......  
(Section 21 amended  by section 65 of Act 22 of 200 8) 
(Section 21 repealed by section 21 6 of Act 45 of 2013)  
#\

#\
22.  Exemptions  
 
When it is in the public interest, the registrar may exempt  - 
 
(a) a manager; or  
 
(b) any category of persons,  
 
from any provision of this Act on such conditions and to such extent as he or she may determine. 
#\ 
 
#\
23.  ……….  
(Section 23 repealed by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
#\

#\ 
24.  ……….  
(Section 24 repealed by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
#\
 
PART III  
ASSOCIATION OF COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES  

#\ 
25.  Application for association licence  
 
(1) An association of persons carrying on the business of a collective investment scheme may apply to the 
registrar for an association licence.  
 
(2) An application for the issue or renewal of an association licence must be made on the form determined 
by the registrar and be accompanied  by the documents and the fee determined by the registrar: Provided 
that if a licence is issued after 30 June of a particular year one half of the annual fee is payable.  
 
(3) A licence expires on 31 December of each year. 
#\ 

#\ 
26.  Issue or renewal of associati on licence  
 
The registrar may on such conditions as he or she may determine issue or renew an association licence 
if the registrar is satisfied that  - 
 
(a) the association is reasonably representative of the interests of the industry;  
 
(b) the association has sufficient financial resources for performing its functions;  
 
(c) the proposed rules of the association comply with the requirements of this Act;  
 
(d) the interests of the public will be served by the issue or renewal of the licence; and    
(e) the membe rs of the association carry on the business of a collective investment scheme 
independently and in competition with one another. 
#\
 
#\ 
27.  Refusal of renewal of association licence  
 
(1) The registrar may refuse to renew a licence if he or she is satisfied that during the previous year  - 
 
(a) the rules of the association were not properly enforced;  
 
(b) the association did not comply with any of the requirements referred to in section 26(a), (b), (d) 
or (e);  
 
(c) the association did not comply with any direction,  request, condition or requirement of the registrar 
in terms of this Act;  
 
(d) the association failed to give effect to a decision of the board of appeal referred to in section 24; 
or 
 
(e) the association did not comply with any other provision of this Act . 
 
(2) A refusal under subsection (1) is of no force unless the registrar has by notice in writing given the 
association concerned his or her reasons for the intended refusal and an opportunity to show cause 
within a period specified in the notice why rene wal should not be refused.
#\
  
#\ 
28.  Cancellation or suspension of association licence  
 
(1) The registrar may cancel or suspend the licence of an association on such conditions as he or she may 
determine if he or she is satisfied  - 
 
(a) that the association has  failed  - 
 
(i) to comply with the requirements referred to in sections 26(a), (b), (c) or (e) and 27(1)(a);  
 
(ii) to comply with any direction, request, condition or requirement of the registrar in terms of 
this Act; or  
 
(iii) to comply with any other provision of this Act,  
 
and that such failure has resulted or could result in prejudice of a material extent to the interests 
of the public or investors;  
(b) after an investigation or inspection in terms of section 14, that the manner in which the functio ns 
of an association are performed is unsatisfactory or not calculated to serve the best interests of 
the public or investors;  
 
(c) that the association has ceased to perform its functions;  
 
(d) that the association failed to start performing its functions  within a reasonable period after its 
licensing; or  
 
(e) that the licence was obtained through misrepresentation.  
 
(2) Cancellation or suspension of a licence under subsection (1) is of no force unless the registrar has by 
notice in writing given the assoc iation concerned his or her reasons for the intended cancellation or 
suspension and an opportunity to show cause within a period specified in the notice why its licence 
should not be cancelled or suspended.
#\
  
#\ 
29.  Restriction on use of name or description im plying connection with association  
 
A person may not use a name or description signifying or implying some connection between a 
company, close corporation, body, firm, business, undertaking and an association which has been 
licensed in terms of section 26 unless such person is a member of that association. 
#\ 

#\ 
30.  Delegation of functions of executive committee  
 
An executive committee of an association may, subject to such conditions as it may determine, delegate 
or assign any power or duty conferred upon or imposed upon it under this Act to a subcommittee or a 
person designated by it but is not divested or relieved of a power or duty so delegated or assigned.
#\
  
#\ 
31.  Suspension of administration of collective investment scheme  
 
(1) Subject to the other provision s of this section and despite any arrangement whereby a collective 
investment scheme may be administered by another member of an association  - 
 
(a) an executive committee may in accordance with the rules stop or suspend the administration of 
a collective i nvestment scheme or part thereof by a member of an association;  
 
(b) an executive officer of an association may, for a period not exceeding 30 days, suspend the 
administration of a collective investment scheme or part thereof by a member of an association 
with the approval of 75 per cent of the members of an executive committee, if it is desirable or for 
the purposes of compliance with and enforcement of the rules and the other requirements of an 
association, without prior notice to any person and without h earing any person.  
(2) Stoppage or suspension referred to in subsection (1)(a) may not be effected by the executive committee 
where the member concerned has not had the opportunity to make representations to the executive 
committee in support of the conti nued performance of an activity.  
 
(3) In the case of  - 
 
(a) a stoppage or suspension of a particular activity by an executive committee in terms of subsection 
(1)(a); or  
 
(b) a suspension of a particular activity by an executive officer in terms of subsect ion (1)(b),  
 
the executive committee or executive officer, as the case may be, may permit other members of the 
association to continue the activity in question for the sole purpose of fulfilling any obligations entered 
into before the stoppage or suspensio n. 
 
(4) 
(a) Whenever the registrar considers it desirable in the public interest he or she may, after 
consultation  - 
 
(i) with the executive committee of an association, exercise any power referred to in 
subsection (1)(a);  
 
(ii) with the executive officer of an association, exercise any power referred to in subsection 
(1)(b); or  
 
(iii) with the executive committees of two associations, in a case contemplated in subparagraph 
(i), transfer the performance of a particular activity from one association to anoth er; or  
 
(iv)  with the executive officers of two associations, in a case contemplated in subparagraph (ii), 
transfer the performance of a particular activity from one association to another.  
 
(b) Subsections (2) and (3) apply to the exercise of the powers r eferred to in paragraph (a), and in 
such application a reference therein to an executive committee or an executive officer, as the 
case may be, is construed as a reference to the registrar.
#\
  
#\ 
32.  Rules of association  
 
The rules of an association must provid e for the matters specified in Schedule 4.
#\  
 
#\
33.  Power of court to declare member disqualified  
 
(1) If a court  -    
(a) convicts a member of an association of an offence in terms of this Act or of an offence of which 
any dishonest act or omission is an elemen t; or  
 
(b) finds, in proceedings to which a member of an association is a party or in which his or her conduct 
is called in question, that he or she has been guilty of reckless or dishonest conduct,  
 
the court may declare the member concerned to be disqualified, for an indefinite period or for a period 
specified by the court, from carrying on the business of a member of an association.  
 
(2) The court may, on good cause shown, vary or revoke a declaration made under subsection (1).  
 
(3) The registrar of the court or the clerk of the court which has made a declaration under subsection (1) or 
varied or revoked a declaration under subsection (2) must as soon as possible notify the registrar and 
the association concerned thereof.  
 
(4) A declaration made un der subsection (1) in respect of a member does not affect any right of an executive 
committee to take disciplinary action against the member in terms of the rules.
#\
  
#\ 
34.  Voluntary dissolution of association  
 
(1) An association may be dissolved voluntarily i n the circumstances and in the manner specified for that 
purpose in its rules.  
 
(2) Subject to subsection (1), the prov isions of the Companies Act relating to the voluntary winding -up of 
companies apply with the necessary changes to the voluntary dissoluti on of an association.  
(Section 34(2) amended by section 21 7(a)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(3) The liquidator of an association must  - 
 
(a) until the association is dissolved, send to the registrar the accounting records determined by the 
registrar; and  
 
(b) forwa rd to the registrar a copy of every notice or account which, in terms of the Companies Act,  
he or she is required to furnish to the Master of the High Court.  
(Section 34(3)(b) substituted by section 21 7(b)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(4) When the affairs of an association have been completely wound up, the Master of the High Court must 
send a certificate to that effect to the registrar, who must cancel the association's licence, and thereupon 
the association is dissolved.
#\  

#\ 
35.  Winding -up of association by court     
(1) An order for the winding -up of an association may be granted by the court on the application of  - 
 
(a) the association or the executive committee of an association;  
 
(b) one or more of its creditors;  
 
(c) one or more of its members;  
 
(d) jointly, any of or all the parties mentioned in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c);  
 
(e) the business rescue practitioner of the association; or  
(Section 35(1)(e) substituted by section 21 8(a)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(f) the registrar.  
 
(2) 
(a) Subject to the provisions of subsec tion (1), the p rovisions of the Companies Act  relating to the 
winding -up of companies by the court apply with the necessary changes to an association.  
 
(b) In the application of the provisions of that Act  the reference to the  Commission in section 81 of 
the Companies Act must be construed  as being a reference also to the registrar.  
(Section 35(2) substituted by section 21 8(b)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(3) An order for the winding -up of an association by the court may only be made if the court is satisfied that 
a business rescue of the association is undesirable.  
(Section 35(3) substituted by section 21 8(b)  of Act 45 of 2013)
#\  
 
#\
36.  Business rescue of association  
 
Section 111A applies with the changes required by the context to the  busin ess rescue of an association . 
(Section 36 substituted by section 21 9 of Act 45 of 2013) 
#\ 
 
#\
37.  Appointment of liquidator  
 
Despite the provisions of the Companies Act, a liquidator in respect of an association must be appointed 
by the Master of the High Court in consultation with the re gistrar.  
(Section 37 substituted by section 2 20 of Act 45 of 2013) 
#\
 
#\ 
38.  Report by association to registrar  
An association must within two months after the end of every calendar year submit a report to the 
registrar concerning the activities of its members  and of its own activities in relation to this Act and, 
within three months after the end of the financial year, submit to the registrar audited financial statements 
which fairly present the financial affairs of the association.
#\  
 
PART IV  
COLLECTIVE INVESTM ENT SCHEMES IN SECURITIES  
#\ 
39.  Definition  
 
In this Part, unless the context indicates otherwise, "collective investment scheme in securities" means 
a scheme the portfolio of which consists, subject to this Act, mainly of securities.
#\  

#\ 
40.  Determination of s ecurities or classes of securities  
 
The registrar may determine securities or classes of securities that may be included in a portfolio of a 
collective investment scheme in securities.
#\  
 
#\
41.  Restrictions on administration of collective investment scheme in securities  
 
(1) No person other than a company which has been registered as a manager under section 42 and its 
authorised agent may administer any collective investment scheme in securities.  
 
(2) Only a company which  - 
 
(a) is a company under the Companies  Act ; and  
(Section 41(2)(a) substituted by section 2 21(a)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(b) has capital and reserves as determined in terms of section 88 available for employment in its 
collective investment scheme,  
 
may be or may remain registered as a manager unde r section 42.  
 
(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine  not 
exceeding R10 million  or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 10 years , or to both such  fine and 
such imprisonment.  
(Section 41( 3) substituted by section 2 21( b) of Act 45 of 2013)  
#\
 
#\
42.  Procedure for registration of manager of collective investment scheme in securities  
 
(1) A company which desires to be registered as a manager of a collective investment scheme in securities 
must lod ge with the registrar an application for registration in the manner and form determined by the 
registrar, disclose the particulars determined by the registrar and pay the application fee determined by 
the registrar.  
 
(2) The registrar may call upon any app licant which has applied for registration under subsection (1) to 
furnish him or her with any further information which is relevant to the application.  
 
(3) If the registrar is satisfied that the  - 
 
(a) deed which the applicant proposes to prepare for the purposes of the collective investment 
scheme in securities does not contain anything inconsistent with this Act; and  
 
(b) proposed directors, management, trustee or custodian and auditors are qualified as required by 
or under this Act,  
 
he or she must, sub ject to subsection (4) and on such conditions as he or she may determine, register 
the applicant as a manager and issue to it a certificate of registration in the form determined by the 
registrar.  
 
(4) The registrar may not register any company as a manage r under this section unless he or she is satisfied 
that  - 
 
(a) such company complies with subsection (3);  
 
(b) such company is fit to assume the duties and responsibilities of a manager; and  
 
(c) the registration of such company as a manager will be in the  public interest.  
 
(5)  The registrar may, after the registration of a company as a manager, on  application by the manager or 
on the registrar’s own initiative, withdraw or amend  any condition or restriction in respect of the 
registration if the registrar is satisfied  that any such withdrawal or amendment is justified and will not 
prejudice the  interests of investors.  
(Section 42(5) added by section 2 22 of Act 45 of 2013) 
#\ 
 
#\
43.  Change of name of manager, portfolio or collective investment scheme in securities and change 
of shareholding or directors and removal of appointees  
 
(1) A manager may not without the prior approval in writing of the registrar  - 
 
(a) change the name under which it is registered under this Act or change its shareholding or 
directors;  
(b) use or refer to itself by a name other than the name under which it is so registered or a literal 
translation thereof;  
 
(c) use or refer to itself by an abbreviation or a derivative of such name; or  
 
(d) change the name of its collective in vestment scheme in securities or any portfolio administered 
by it as approved by the registrar.  
 
(2) The registrar may by notice require a manager to terminate the appointment of a director or officer of 
that manager, if the director or officer is not fit and proper to hold the office in question.  
 
(3) When the registrar intends to act as contemplated in subsection (2), the registrar must give notice to the 
manager, and, unless it is impracticable to do so, the director or officer concerned, of the registra r's 
intention and the reasons therefor, and the director or officer must thereupon cease to perform the 
functions of the office in question pending the final outcome of any appeal under section 24.
#\
  
#\ 
44.  Determination of market price of securities  
 
(1) A se curity must be valued at its fair market price.  
 
(2) When a manager is unable to determine a market price for a security, whether listed on an exchange or 
not, for the purposes of a collective investment scheme in securities, a fair market price for such s ecurity 
must, at the request of such manager, be determined by a stockbroker who is a member of a licensed 
exchange.  
 
(3) If such manager does not agree with the price determined by the stockbroker, it must refer the matter 
to the committee of the exchange  concerned, which thereupon must determine the fair market price for 
such security.
#\  
 
#\
45.  Foreign securities in which collective investment scheme in securities may invest  
 
A manager may, subject to the provisions of this Act and any other law, invest assets of a portfolio of a 
collective investment scheme in foreign equity or non -equity securities if such foreign  - 
 
(a) 
(i) non -equity securities are from issuers located in a country which has a foreign currency 
sovereign rating, and the issuer has a lo ng-term issuer credit rating on the international 
scale, by a rating agency, which ratings and rating agency must be determined by the 
registrar: Provided that if the country or the issuer has been rated by more than one agency 
the lower of the ratings app lies; and  
(ii) non -equity securities are securities to which the manager has applied the due diligence 
guidelines for issuers determined by the registrar;  
 
(b) 
(i) equity securities are traded on an exchange which has been granted full membership by 
the W orld Federation of Exchanges; or  
 
(ii) equity securities are securities listed on an exchange to which the manager has applied 
the due diligence guidelines determined by the registrar.
#\  
 
#\
46.  Limitation on investment in portfolio  
 
(1) The registrar may deter mine the manner in which and the limits and conditions subject to which 
securities or classes of securities may be included in a portfolio of a collective investment scheme in 
securities.  
 
(2) The registrar may determine different manners, limits and conditions for different securities or classes 
of securities or different portfolios of a collective investment scheme in securities.  
(Section 46 substituted  by section 2 23 of Act 45 of 2013)  
#\
 
PART V  
COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES IN PROPERTY  

#\ 
47.  Definitions  
 
(1) In this Part unless the context indicates otherwise  - 
 
"collective investment scheme in property"  includes a scheme the portfolio of which consists of 
property shares, immovable property, assets determined under subsection (2) or any inves tment 
permitted under section 49;  
 
"fixed property company"  means a company all the issued shares of which are included in a portfolio, 
and the principal business of which consists in the acquisition and holding of  - 
 
(a) urban immovable property or any un divided share or interest therein or leasehold in respect 
thereof; and  
 
(b) such other immovable property or any undivided share or interest therein or leasehold in respect 
thereof as the registrar may have approved;  
 
"property shares"  means shares in and of - 
(a) a fixed property company; or  
 
(b) a holding company which has no subsidiaries other than fixed property companies which are 
wholly owned subsidiaries as referred to in section 3(1)(b)  of the Companies Act ; and  
(Paragraph (b) of the definition of “property shares” in s ection 47 substituted by section 2 24 of Act 45 of 
2013)  
 
"urban immovable property"  means any piece of land registered as an erf, lot or stand in a deeds 
registry, including the office of the Rand Townships Registrar, which erf, lot or stand is situated in a 
township as defined in section 1 of the Advertising on Roads and Ribbon Developm ent Act, 1940 (Act 
No. 21 of 1940), and, for the purposes of section 49, any piece of land registered as an erf, lot or stand 
in a foreign deeds registry.  
 
(2) The registrar may for the purposes of this Part determine assets, other than those referred to i n the 
definition of "collective investment scheme in property", which may be included in a portfolio of a 
collective investment scheme in property.
#\  
 
#\
48.  Restrictions on administration of collective investment scheme in property  
 
(1) No person other than a company which has been registered as a manager of a collective investment 
scheme in property under this Part or its authorised agent may administer a collective investment 
scheme in property.  
 
(2) Only a company which  - 
 
(a) is registered as a company unde r the Companies Act ; and  
(Section 48(2)(a) substituted by section 2 25(a)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(b) has capital and reserves as determined in terms of section 88 available for employment in its 
collective investment scheme,  
 
may be or may remain registered as  a manager under this Part.  
 
(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine  not 
exceeding R10 million  or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 10 years , or to both such  fine and 
such imprisonment.  
(Section 48(3) substituted by section 2 25(b)  of Act 45 of 2013)
#\
  
#\ 
49.  Foreign country in which collective investment scheme in property may invest  
 
A manager may, subject to this Act or any other law, invest assets of a portfoli o of a collective investment 
scheme in property in immovable property in a foreign country and property shares or participatory 
interests in a collective investment scheme in property in a foreign country if such foreign country has a 
foreign currency sove reign rating by a rating agency, which rating and rating agency must be determined 
by the registrar: Provided that if the country has been rated by more than one agency the lower of the 
ratings applies.  
#\
 
#\
50.  Listing of participatory interests by exchange  
 
(1) A manager of a collective investment scheme in property must apply for permission for such participatory 
interests to be dealt in on a licensed exchange.  
 
(2) Part D of Chapter 2 of the Companies Act applies to the repurchase of a participatory interes t by a 
collective investment scheme in property and for the purposes of this subsection, "shares" as referred 
to in that Part includes participatory interests in a collective investment scheme in property.  
(Section 50(2) substituted by section 2 26 of Act 4 5 of 2013) 
#\ 
 
#\
51.  Certain provisions of Part IV to apply in respect of manager of collective investment scheme in 
property  
 
Sections 42, 43 and 46 apply, in so far as they can be applied with the necessary changes, in respect 
of a manager of a collective inv estment scheme in property.
#\  
 
PART VI  
COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES IN PARTICIPATION BONDS
  
#\ 
52.  Definitions  
 
(1) In this Part, unless the context indicates otherwise  - 
 
"collective investment scheme in participation bonds"  means a scheme of which the portfolio, 
subject to the provisions of this Act, consists mainly of assets in the form of participation bonds, and in 
pursuance of which members of the public are invited or permitted to acquire a participatory interest in 
all the participation bonds included in the scheme;  
 
"nominee company"  means a nominee company which has been approved by the registrar and which  
- 
 
(a) has as its principal object to act as nominee for or representative of any person in the holding of 
any pr operty in trust for such person;  
 
(b) is precluded by its memorandum of association from incurring any liabilities except for those 
persons on whose behalf it holds property to the extent of their respective rights to and interests 
in such property;     
(c) has entered into an irrevocable agreement with the manager in terms of which such manager has 
undertaken to pay all the expenses of and incidental to its formation, operations, management 
and liquidation, and has appointed directors responsible for the mana gement and control of the 
nominee company of whom more than 50 per cent are independent from the manager or its 
holding company or subsidiary of such holding company or fellow subsidiary of such manager;  
 
"participant"  means a person who holds a participat ory interest in all the participation bonds included 
in a collective investment scheme in participation bonds;  
 
"participation bond"  means a mortgage bond over immovable property  - 
 
(a) which is described as a participation bond and is registered as such in the name of a nominee 
company and is included in a collective investment scheme in participation bonds; and  
 
(b) which is a first mortgage bond or which ranks equally with another first participation bond and has 
the same mortgagor;  
 
"principal debt"  me ans the cash amount in money actually received by or on behalf of the mortgagor 
in terms of the money -lending transaction secured by a participation bond; and  
 
"rules"  means the rules referred to in subsection (2).  
 
(2) The registrar may, for the purposes of this Part, make rules which are consistent with this Act for the 
administration of a collective investment scheme in participation bonds.  
 
(3) Such rules do not have the force of law until published by notice in the Gazette.
#\ 
 
#\
53.  Restrictions on adminis tration of collective investment scheme in participation bonds  
 
(1) No person other than a public or private company which has been registered as a manager of a collective 
investment scheme in participation bonds under this Part or its authorised agent may  administer any 
collective investment scheme in participation bonds.  
 
(2) Only a company which has capital and reserves as determined in terms of section 88 available for 
employment in its collective investment scheme may be or remain registered as a manag er under this 
Part.  
 
(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not 
exceeding R10 million or to imprisonm ent for a period not exceeding 10  years , or to both such  fine and 
such imprisonment.  
(Secti on 53(3) substituted  by section 2 27 of Act 45 of 2013)  
#\

#\   
54.  Restrictions on business of collective investment scheme in participation bonds  
 
(1) From the date of the coming into operation of this Part, a manager of a participation bond scheme which 
has been exempted by the registrar of unit trust companies in terms of section 37(2)(a) of the Unit Trusts 
Control Act, 1981 (Act No. 54 of 1981), may not register any further participation bond in terms of the 
Participation Bonds Act, 1981 (Act No. 55 of 1981 ). 
 
(2) 
(a) A manager of a participation bond scheme which has been exempted by the registrar of unit trust 
companies in terms of section 37(2)(a) of the Unit Trusts Control Act, 1981 (Act No. 54 of 1981), 
and a nominee company approved by that registrar i n terms of that section, is regarded as from 
the date of the commencement of this Part to be registered as a manager or approved as a 
nominee company, as the case may be, under this Part.  
 
(b) The registrar must issue to a manager referred to in paragraph (a) a certificate of registration in 
terms of this Act.  
 
(3) Within 90 days after the commencement of this Part, the manager must exchange participations in a 
participation bond registered in terms of the Participation Bonds Act, 1981, for a participatory interest of 
equal value in a collective investment scheme in participation bonds in terms of this Part.  
 
(4) Sections 42 and 43 apply, to the extent to which they can be applied, in respect of a manager of a 
collective investment scheme in participation bonds. 
#\ 
 
#\
55.  Capacity of manager  
 
(1) The manager of a collective investment scheme in participation bonds may in respect of any business 
conducted by such manager act as a principal or as an agent.  
 
(2) When acting as a principal in respect of a transaction which is subject to the provisions of any other law 
the manager is entitled to charge such finance charges as may be charged in terms of the said law in 
connection with a money -lending transaction. 
#\ 
 
#\
56.  Registration of participation bonds in name of nominee company  
 
(1) Despite any contrary law, a participation bond clearly described as such must be registered as such in 
a deeds registry in the name of a nominee company as nominee for or representative of the participants.  
 
(2) The names of the partic ipants need not be listed in a participation bond.
#\ 
 
#\
57.  Rights of participant     
The debt secured by a participation bond is, to the extent of the participatory interest granted to any 
participant, a debt owing by the mortgagor to such participant and not to  the nominee company, and the 
rights conferred by the registration of any such bond are regarded, despite the registration of the bond 
in the name of the nominee company, to be held by the participants. 
#\ 
 
#\
58.  Minimum investment period  
 
An agreement in terms  of which a manager accepts money for investment in a collective investment 
scheme in participation bonds must provide that such money is invested in such scheme for a period of 
not less than five years.
#\
  
#\ 
59.  Participatory interests rank in preference conc urrently  
 
All participatory interests granted in any participation bond, whenever granted, shall rank in preference 
concurrently with one another as from the date of registration of the bond.
#\  

#\ 
60.  Restrictions on rights of nominee company  
 
A nominee compan y may not transfer, cede or in any way encumber any of its rights under a participation 
bond without the written consent of the registrar.
#\  
 
#\
61.  Collateral security in respect of participation bonds  
 
(1) Any collateral security, including a surety mortgage bond, collateral mortgage bond, notarial bond, 
suretyship, guarantee, cession, pledge or lien accepted by a manager in addition to a participation bond 
in order to secure  - 
 
(a) the debt secured by a participation bond;  
 
(b) the due performance by a mortga gor of his or her obligations under a participation bond;  
 
(c) the due performance by a surety of his or her obligations under a contract of suretyship relating 
to such debt or to the obligations of the mortgagor,  
must be registered in the name of the nominee company as nominee for or representative of the 
participants, and any contract relating to such security must be drawn and executed in favour of the 
nominee company as nominee for or representative of the participants.  
 
(2) Despite any contrary law , a contract of suretyship relating to a debt secured by a participation bond and 
accepted by a manager subject to subsection (1), is enforceable by the nominee company in its own 
name against the surety on behalf of the participants.     
(3) Sections 56(2), 57, 58 and 59 apply with the necessary changes to the extent to which they can be 
applied, in respect of collateral security accepted by a manager for the purposes referred to in 
subsection (1), and a reference to a participation bond is construed so as to  include a reference to a 
participation bond and collateral security, and  a reference to a mortgagor is construed so as to include 
a reference to a mortgagor and the grantor of collateral security.  
 
(4) This section applies with the necessary changes to an y collateral security accepted before 21 June 1978 
by the manager for the purposes referred to in subsection (1) and in respect of which the contract or 
arrangement or other document containing the terms and conditions thereof was in force at that date.
#\  
 
PART VII  
DECLARED COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES  
#\ 
62.  Definition  
 
In this Part, unless the context indicates otherwise  - 
 
"declared collective investment scheme"  means a collective investment scheme other than a 
collective investment scheme in securities, pr operty or participation bonds, which has been declared to 
be a collective investment scheme under section 63. 
#\ 
 
#\
63.  Declaration of specific type of business as collective investment scheme for purposes of Act  
 
(1) The Authority may by notice in the Gazette  declare a specific type of business to be a collective 
investment scheme to which this Act or any part or provision thereof applies.  
 
(2) The Authority may for the purposes of subsection (1)  - 
 
(a) define the business activity of a declared collective investment scheme;  
 
(b) specify the matters that must be included in the deed of a declared collective investment scheme;  
 
(c) issue different notices for different types of declared collective investment schemes.  
 
(Section 63 amended  by section 290 of Act  9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 )
#\ 
 
#\
64.  Certain provisions to apply in respect of declared collective investment scheme  
 
Sections 41, 42, 43, 45 and 46 apply, to the extent to which they can be applied with the necessary 
changes, in respect of a ma nager of a declared collective investment scheme.
#\  
  PART VIII  
FOREIGN COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES  

#\ 
65.  Restrictions on foreign collective investment scheme to carry on business in Republic  
 
(1) The registrar may approve an application by the manager or operator of a foreign collective investment 
scheme to solicit investments in such scheme from members of the public in the Republic if  - 
 
(a) the application is in the form determined by the registrar;  
 
(b) a copy of the approval or registration by the rel evant foreign jurisdiction authorising the foreign 
collective investment scheme to act as such is submitted;  
 
(c) the foreign collective investment scheme can comply with the conditions determined by the 
registrar; and  
 
(d) the fee determined by the regist rar has been paid.  
 
(2) A scheme approved in terms of subsection (1) must, for the purposes of section 15A of the Financial 
Services Board Act, 1990 (Act No. 97 of 1990), be regarded as a financial institution and the provisions 
of that section apply, with  the necessary changes required by the context, to such a scheme.  
 
(3) A person who solicits investments in a foreign collective investment scheme which is not approved in 
terms of subsection (1) is guilty of an offence and liable on  conviction to a fine not exceeding R10 million 
or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 10 years or to both such  fine and such imprisonment.  
(Section 65(3)  substituted  by section 2 28 of Act 45 of 2013)
#\  
 
#\
66.  Reciprocity  
 
(1) If in terms of any  - 
 
(a) law of a foreign country; or  
 
(b) regulatory or supervisory action taken by an authority or body in a foreign country, a manager 
connected with the Republic is suspended, disqualified or restricted from administering a 
collective investment scheme in that country under the  same requirements as persons connected 
with that country are able to administer such a scheme, the Authority may by notice served on a 
person connected with that country who is administering or intends to administer a collective 
investment scheme in the R epublic, suspend, disqualify or restrict the business of such person in 
a similar manner.  
 
(2) Notice may not be served in terms of subsection (1) unless  -    
(a) it is in the national interest; and  
 
(b) the Authority has consulted the person concerned or, if expedient, a body representing the interest 
of the person to be affected.  
 
(3) A notice must  - 
 
(a) state the grounds on which it is given;  
 
(b) identify the country to which the person is connected;  
 
(c) specify the date on which such notice comes into  force; and  
 
(d) provide for a reasonable period to complete performance of transactions entered into before the 
date on which the notice in terms of this section comes into force or for the termination of contracts 
of a continuing nature.  
 
(4) A notice in  terms of subsection (1) may suspend, disqualify, restrict or partially restrict the administration 
of a collective investment scheme by a person and may provide for  - 
 
(a) the withdrawal of the registration or approval under this Act of a manager to admin ister a collective 
investment scheme in the Republic;  
 
(b) the disqualification of a person from being registered or approved as a manager under this Act; 
or 
 
(c) the restriction or partial restriction of a manager registered or approved under this Act in respect 
of the administration of a collective investment scheme.  
 
(5) A partially restrictive notice may prohibit a manager from  - 
 
(a) entering into transactions of a specified kind or entering into them in specified circumstances or 
to a specified extent;  
 
(b) soliciting investments of a specified kind or otherwise than from a specified person; or  
 
(c) administering a collective investment scheme in a specified manner or otherwise than in a 
specified manner.  
 
(6) For the purposes of this section a p erson or manager is connected with a foreign country or the Republic, 
as the case may be, if  -    
(a) in the case of an individual, he or she is a national of or resident in that country or the Republic 
and administers a collective investment scheme from a p rincipal place of business in that country 
or the Republic;  
 
(b) in the case of a body corporate, it is incorporated or has a principal place of business in that 
country or the Republic or is controlled by a person or persons connected with that country or  the 
Republic;  
 
(c) in the case of a partnership, it has a principal place of business in that country or the Republic or 
any partner is connected with that country or the Republic; or  
 
(d) in the case of an unincorporated association which is not a partne rship, it is formed under the law 
of that country or the Republic, has a principal place of business in that country or the Republic 
or is controlled by a person connected with that country or the Republic.  
 
(Section 66 amended  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2 017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 )
#\ 
 
#\
67.  Withdrawal of approval of foreign collective investment scheme  
 
The registrar may at any time withdraw an approval under section 65 if  - 
 
(a) it is desirable or in the interest of investors or potential investors to  do so;  
 
(b) the manager has submitted inaccurate or misleading information in its application; or  
 
(c) any of the conditions referred to in section 65(1)(c) are no longer met. 
#\ 
 
PART IX  
TRUSTEE OR CUSTODIAN  

#\ 
68.  Appointment and termination of appointment o f trustee or custodian  
 
(1) A manager must appoint either a trustee or a custodian for its collective investment scheme depending 
on the structure of the collective investment scheme.  
 
(2) A person may not become or act as a trustee or custodian unless tha t person is registered as such 
under section 69.  
 
(3) When the appointment of a trustee or custodian is terminated, otherwise than as contemplated in section 
69(3), that trustee or custodian must as soon as possible submit a report to the registrar stating  - 
(a) whether any irregularity or undesirable practice is contemplated, has taken place or is taking place 
in the conduct of the affairs of the collective investment scheme which has caused or is likely to 
cause financial loss to investors in a portfolio  of the collective investment scheme;  
 
(b) particulars of any such irregularity or undesirable practice; and  
 
(c) the reason, if known, for the termination of the appointment.  
 
(4) A trustee or custodian intending to retire from an appointment in terms of this section, must give to the 
manager and to the registrar not less than six months' notice of such intention, and during the said 
period of six months the manager concerned must take steps to appoint as trustee or custodian some 
other person competent to  act as such in terms of section 69.  
 
(5) If a manager fails to take the steps mentioned in subsection (4) within the said period of six months, the 
registrar may, after consultation with the manager, direct the manager to appoint as trustee or custodian 
a competent person nominated by the registrar.  
 
(6) 
(a) When it is impracticable for a trustee or custodian to perform any or all its duties under section 
70, the trustee or custodian may appoint a representative which is independent from the manager 
and an y of its agents, to perform such duties.  
 
(b) A trustee or custodian of a collective investment scheme who has appointed a representative 
under paragraph (a), is not divested of the functions referred to in that paragraph. 
#\ 
 
#\
69.  Qualifications and registrat ion of trustee or custodian  
 
(1) The following types of company or institution may become or act as a trustee or as a custodian, namely  
- 
 
(a) a public company under the Companies Act ; 
(Section 69(1)(a) substituted by section 2 29(a)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(b) a company or institution incorporated under a special Act, excluding a close corporation referred 
to in the Close Corporations Act, 1984 (Act No. 69 of 1984);  
 
(c) an institution or branch of a foreign institution which is entitled to carry on the busines s of a bank 
under the Banks Act, 1990 (Act No. 94 of 1990); or  
 
(d) an institution which is registered as an insurer under the Long - term Insurance Act, 1998 (Act No. 
52 of 1998).  
(2) A company or institution referred to in subsection (1) may not become or act as a trustee or custodian 
unless it  - 
 
(a) maintains capital and reserves together amounting to not less than 10 million rand; and  
 
(b) has been registered by the registrar as a trustee or custodian.  
 
(3) 
(a) The registrar may not register any compa ny or institution as a trustee or custodian under this 
section unless he or she is satisfied that  - 
 
(i) the company or institution is not, in relation to the manager, either a holding company or a 
subsidiary within the meaning of those terms as defined in  the Companies Act ; and  
(Section 69(3)(a)(i) substituted by section 2 29(b)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(ii) the general financial and commercial standing and independence of the company or 
institution is such that it is fit for performing the functions of a truste e or custodian and that 
the company or institution is by reason of the nature of its business sufficiently experienced 
and equipped to perform such functions.  
 
(b) The registrar may revoke or suspend any such registration already granted if at any time 
thereafter he or she ceases to be satisfied that the requirements contained in paragraph (a) are 
met by the trustee or custodian.  
 
(4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a 
fine or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year or to both a fine and such imprisonment.  
 
(5) The registrar must, before revoking or suspending a registration in terms of subsection (3)(b), notify the 
trustee or custodian concerned of the grounds upon whi ch such action is contemplated against it, and 
must give it a reasonable opportunity of showing cause why the proposed action should not be taken.  
 
(6) The trustee or custodian has the right to present its case verbally to the registrar and in doing so to be 
represented by any other person.
#\  
 
#\
70.  Duties of trustee or custodian  
 
(1) A trustee or custodian must  - 
 
(a) ensure that the basis on which the sale, issue, repurchase or cancellation, as the case may be, 
of participatory interests effected by or on beh alf of a collective investment scheme is carried out 
is in accordance with this Act and the deed;  
(b) ensure that the selling or repurchase price of participatory interests is calculated in accordance 
with this Act and the deed;  
 
(c) carry out the instruc tions of the manager unless they are inconsistent with this Act or the deed;  
 
(d) verify that in transactions involving the assets of a collective investment scheme any consideration 
is remitted to it within time limits which are acceptable market practice  in the context of a particular 
transaction;  
 
(e) verify that the income accruals of a portfolio are applied in accordance with this Act and the deed;  
 
(f) enquire into and prepare a report on the administration of the collective investment scheme by 
the m anager during each annual accounting period, in which it must be stated whether the 
collective investment scheme has been administered in accordance with  - 
 
(i) the limitations imposed on the investment and borrowing powers of the manager by this 
Act; and  
 
(ii) the provisions of this Act and the deed;  
 
(g) if the manager does not comply with the limitations and provisions referred to in paragraph (f)(i) 
or (ii), state the reason for the non -compliance and outline the steps taken by the manager to 
rectify the situation;  
 
(h) send the report referred to in paragraph (f) to the registrar and to the manager in good time to 
enable the manager to include a copy of the report in its annual report;  
 
(i) ensure that  - 
 
(i) there is a legal separation of assets held  under custody and that the legal entitlement of 
investors to such assets is assured;  
 
(ii) appropriate internal control systems are maintained and that records clearly identify the 
nature and value of all assets under custody, the ownership of each asset and the place 
where documents of title pertaining to each asset are kept.  
 
(2) A trustee or custodian must report to the manager any irregularity or undesirable practice concerning 
the collective investment scheme of which it is aware and if steps to recti fy the irregularity or practice in 
question are not taken to the satisfaction of the trustee or custodian, it must as soon as possible report 
such irregularity or undesirable practice to the registrar.  
(Section 70(2) substituted by section 2 30 of Act 45 of  2013)  
(3) The trustee or custodian must satisfy itself that every income statement, balance sheet or other return 
prepared by the manager in terms of section 90 fairly represents the assets and liabilities, as well as the 
income and distribution of incom e, of every portfolio of the collective investment scheme administered 
by the manager.  
 
(4) At the request of the trustee or custodian, every director or employee of the manager must submit to the 
trustee or custodian any book or document or information re lating to the administration by the manager 
of its collective investment scheme which is in his or her possession or at his or her disposal, and which 
the trustee or custodian may consider necessary to perform its functions.  
 
(5) A person may not interfere  with the performance by a trustee or custodian of its functions.  
 
(6) A trustee or custodian of a collective investment scheme which fails to perform any of its duties referred 
to in this section, is guilty of an offence.
#\  
 
#\
71.  Status of assets  
 
For purposes of this Act any  - 
 
(a) money or other assets received from an investor; and  
 
(b) an asset of a portfolio,  
 
are regarded as being trust property for the purposes of the Financial Institutions (Protection of Funds) 
Act, 2001 (Act No. 28 of 2001), an d a manager, its authorised agent, trustee or custodian must deal with 
such money or other assets in terms of this Act and the deed and in the best interests of investors.
#\  
 
#\
72.  Liability of trustee or custodian in respect of loss of assets  
 
The trustee or custodian must indemnify the manager and investors against any loss or damage suffered 
in respect of money or other assets in the custody of the trustee or custodian and which loss or damage 
is caused by a wilful or negligent act or omission by the trustee  or custodian. 
#\ 
 
PART X  
AUDITOR
  
#\ 
73.  Appointment and approval of auditor  
 
(1) A manager must appoint an auditor for the purpose of auditing the whole of the business of the collective 
investment scheme administered by it.  
(2) No director or employee of a manager, trustee or custodian and no firm of which any such director or 
employee is a member may be appointed as an auditor of a collective investment scheme.  
 
(3) A manager must within 30 days from the date of appointment of an auditor apply to the regist rar for 
approval of such appointment.  
 
(4) The registrar may withdraw a prior approval of the appointment of an auditor.  
 
(5) An auditor who has been removed by a manager from his or her office as auditor , must inform the 
registrar thereof. 
#\
 
#\ 
74.  Accounting  records and audit  
 
(1) A manager must in respect of itself and every collective investment scheme administered by it  - 
 
(a) maintain the accounting records and prepare annual financial statements in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting practice;  
 
(b) preserve such records in a safe place for a period of at least five years as from the date of the 
latest entry therein; and  
 
(c) cause such records and annual financial statements to be audited, not later than three months 
after the financial year end  of the manager or collective investment scheme, as the case may be, 
or such later date as the registrar may allow, by an auditor whose appointment has been approved 
by the registrar in terms of section 73.  
 
(2) The auditor must  - 
 
(a) examine the accounti ng records and annual financial statements;  
 
(b) satisfy himself or herself that the accounting records comply with the requirements of this Act; 
and  
 
(c) ensure that the financial statements are properly drawn up so as to fairly represent the financial 
position, and that the results of the operations of the manager and every portfolio of its collective 
investment scheme are in accordance with generally accepted accounting practice and in the 
manner required by this Act.  
 
(3) When the auditor of a collective investment scheme has conducted an audit in terms of subsection (2), 
he or she must report to the manager that the accounting records and the annual financial statements 
have been examined in accordance with generally accep ted auditing standards and in the manner 
required by this Act and state whether in his or her considered opinion they fairly present the financial 
position and the results of the operations of the manager and its collective investment scheme.  
 
(4) If the a uditor is unable to make such a report or to make it without qualification, he or she must include 
in his or her report a statement explaining the facts or circumstances which prevented him or her from 
making his or her report or from making it without qua lification.  
 
(5) The auditor's report under subsection (3) must, unless all the members present agree to the contrary, 
be read out at the annual general meeting of the manager.  
 
(6) An auditor who fails to perform any of the duties referred to in this sect ion, is guilty of an offence.
#\  

#\ 
75.  Duty of auditor to disclose irregularity or undesirable practice  
 
(1) The auditor must  - 
 
(a) report to the manager any irregularity or undesirable practice in the administration of the collective 
investment scheme which has come to his or her notice in the ordinary course of fulfilling his or 
her audit responsibilities or performing other functions in terms of this Act; and  
 
(b) submit a copy of such report to the registrar if there is reasonable cause to believe that suc h 
report is or might be of material significance to the registrar.  
 
(2) For purposes of this section a report is of material significance to the registrar if it deals with a matter 
which, because of its nature or potential financial impact, has caused or i s likely to cause financial loss 
to the scheme or any of its investors or creditors.  
 
(3) An auditor who fails to perform any of the duties referred to in this section, is guilty of an offence.
#\  
 
PART XI  
CONVERSION OF COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME  

#\ 
76.  Definitions  
 
(1) In this Part, unless the context indicates otherwise  - 
 
"applicable date" , in relation to a conversion of a collective investment scheme, means the date of the 
conversion;  
 
"collective investment scheme"  includes one or more portfolios under such scheme and may, 
depending on the structure of the scheme, include a manager;  
"conversion"  means a conversion of a collective investment scheme to any other format of a collective 
investment scheme permissible un der this Act;  
 
"conversion scheme"  means a scheme regulating a conversion and governing the reciprocal rights 
and obligations of the parties to the conversion;  
 
"qualifying interest" , in relation to a collective investment scheme which is converted, means any 
participatory interest in such scheme which was issued before the applicable date.  
 
(2) A conversion scheme must  - 
 
(a) specify the basis, terms, conditions and cost of the conversion;  
 
(b) provide for the issue of participatory interests in a collecti ve investment scheme established by 
the conversion;  
 
(c) provide for an offer, either to persons who immediately before the applicable date were investors 
with a qualifying interest in the collective investment scheme and to members of the public, to 
take up participatory interests in the collective investment scheme established by the conversion: 
Provided that participatory interests may be offered to members of the public to the extent to 
which they are not taken up by persons holding a qualifying interes t in the collective investment 
scheme concerned immediately before the applicable date;  
 
(d) provide for payment of the value of the participatory interest of any investor who chooses not to 
take up a participatory interest in the collective investment sch eme established by the conversion 
or who holds a qualifying interest of a lesser value than the value determined in the conversion 
scheme as the minimum for a qualifying interest.
#\  
 
#\
77.  Conversion of collective investment scheme  
 
A manager may not convert a  collective investment scheme  - 
 
(a) without the approval of the registrar; and  
 
(b) unless authorised by a resolution adopted by a majority in value of investors in the manner 
determined by the registrar.  
#\
 
#\
78.  Application for registrar's approval  
 
(1) A m anager must apply to the registrar for his or her approval of a conversion before a resolution on the 
matter is passed by investors.  
(2) An application referred to in subsection (1) must be accompanied by the following documents in 
duplicate, namely  - 
 
(a) an exposition of the reasons for the proposed conversion and of the manner in which it is proposed 
to effect the conversion;  
 
(b) a proposed conversion scheme;  
 
(c) the proposed deed;  
 
(d) a proposed resolution by investors  - 
 
(i) authorising the conversion in accordance with the conversion scheme;  
 
(ii) approving the provisions of the proposed conversion scheme;  
 
(iii) approving the deed referred to in paragraph (c); and  
 
(iv)  providing for such other matters in connection with the conversion as m ay be considered 
necessary;  
 
(e) a list of the names and employment history of the persons designated to act as the first directors 
of the proposed manager after the conversion.  
 
(3) A manager must furnish the additional particulars in connection with the conversion that the registrar 
may require.
#\  
 
#\
79.  Consideration of application  
 
(1) The registrar may not approve a conversion if  - 
 
(a) any of the documents referred to in section 78(2) is inconsistent with this Act or contains a 
provision which is undesirable;  
 
(b) the basis or conditions on which a participatory interest in the proposed collective investment 
scheme is offered to investors or to investors and members of the public referred to in section 
76(2)(c) are not reasonable or fair or might h ave the effect that a participatory interest in the 
proposed scheme may be acquired contrary to this Act or any other law; or  
 
(c) the application does not comply with a requirement of this Act or any other law.  
 
(2) (a) For the purposes of considering the  basis and conditions on which a participatory interest in any 
proposed collective investment scheme is offered to investors or to investors and members of the 
public referred to in section 76(2)(c) the registrar may, after consultation with the manager, 
designate a person to investigate and advise him or her on the reasonableness and fairness of 
the proposed basis and conditions.  
 
(b) The costs of an investigation in terms of paragraph (a) must be paid by the manager.  
 
(3) The registrar may not refuse an a pplication without having afforded the manager a reasonable 
opportunity to amend the relevant document in accordance with the registrar's requirements.
#\  
 
#\
80.  Resolution by investors  
 
(1) As soon as the registrar has approved a conversion, the manager must o btain a resolution passed by 
investors authorising the conversion.  
 
(2) If the investors pass a resolution authorising the conversion, the registrar must, at the request of the 
manager, issue a certificate to the manager confirming the registrar's approval  of the conversion.
#\  
 
#\
81.  Registration of Memorandum of Incorporation by  Companies  and Intellectual Property 
Commission  
 
(1) If a collective investment scheme is not a company incorporated in terms of the Companies Act, and is 
converted into a collective in vestment scheme in the format of a company, it must be incorporated as a 
company  in terms of the Companies Act with its Memorandum of Incorporation  complying with that Act: 
Provided that, subject to the re quirements of the Companies Act  and any requirement  of the registrar or 
any other authority, the conversion must be regarded as having taken place upon the endorsement of 
the Memorandum of Incorporation under that Act.  
 
(2) The Companies and Intellectual Property Commission may not endorse  the Memorandum of 
Incorporation of a company contemplated in this section unless the application is accompanied by a 
certificate issued in terms of section 82(1).  
 
(3) For the purposes of the endorsement  of the Memorandum of Incorporation of any such company  in 
terms of t he Companies Act, the persons referred to in section 78(2)(e) must, if they accept their 
appointment as the first directors of the company, sign the  Memorandum of Incorporation as if they were 
the persons contemplated in section 13(1) of the Companies Act.  
(Section 81 substituted  by section 2 31 of Act 45 of 2013)
#\  
 
#\
82.  Certificate of registration of conversion and notice in Gazette  
(1) Within 14 days after the applicable date the manager must forward four certified copies of its deed to 
the registrar, whereafter the registrar must issue the manager with a certificate of registration as a 
manager of the converted collective investment scheme upon payment of the registration fee determined 
by the registrar.  
 
(2) The registrar must give notice in the Gazet te of any conversion and the applicable date of a conversion 
in terms of this Part.
#\  
 
#\
83.  Effects of conversion  
 
(1) The business of a converted collective investment scheme which existed before the conversion, 
continues thereafter but in the converted form at and from the applicable date  - 
 
(a) the relevant provisions of this Act apply to it;  
 
(b) a reference in any document to the former collective investment scheme is construed, unless 
inconsistent with the context or otherwise clearly inappropriate, as a reference to the collective 
investment scheme in its new format;  
 
(c) if applicable, the persons who immediately before the conversion were directors of the manager 
must vacate their offices and the persons referred to in section 78(2)(e) become the direct ors of 
the manager of the converted collective investment scheme;  
 
(d) the investors holding a qualifying interest become investors in the converted collective investment 
scheme; and  
 
(e) all participatory interests issued by the former collective investme nt scheme and which were not 
repurchased or cancelled before the conversion, become participatory interests in the converted 
collective investment scheme.  
 
(2) Except in so far as this section provides otherwise, a conversion does not derogate from the obl igations 
of the collective investment scheme or the rights of any creditor of the collective investment scheme 
before the conversion.
#\
  
#\ 
84.  Issue of participatory interests to persons who were investors in former collective investment 
scheme  
 
(1) An offer t o investors holding a qualifying interest to take up a participatory interest in a collective 
investment scheme established by a conversion in terms of this Part must be made in writing to each 
individual investor, and such offer must be accompanied by a s tatement issued by the manager and 
must contain such particulars in connection with  - 
(a) the offer, the conversion and the collective investment scheme's profit;  
 
(b) the scheme's business prospects;  
 
(c) the scheme's general state of affairs; and  
 
(d) such other affairs of the scheme as the registrar may require.  
 
(2) The provisions of the Companies Act, with respect to the issue of a prospectus or an offer of shares, do 
not apply to an offer referred to in subsection (1).  
(Section 84(2) substituted by section 2 32 of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(3) Upon a request made in writing by an investor holding a qualifying interest to a manager (except a 
manager of a collective investment scheme in property) to apply the proceeds of such interest for the 
payment of a partic ipatory interest in a converted collective investment scheme  - 
 
(a) such qualifying interest may be redeemed immediately despite the conditions attached thereto; 
and  
 
(b) such proceeds may be applied for the payment of such participatory interest. 
#\ 
 
PART XI I 
GENERAL
  
#\ 
85.  Restrictions on assets which may be included in or lent by portfolio of collective investment 
scheme  
 
(1) A manager may not sell or offer for sale any participatory interest in a portfolio of a collective investment 
scheme unless at the time  of such offer the portfolio included assets in the manner, within the limits or 
on the conditions determined by the registrar.  
 
(2) A manager may, subject to section 95, lend or offer to lend assets included in a portfolio in the manner, 
within the limits  or on the conditions determined in the deed.  
 
(3) Different manners, limits and conditions for different assets or portfolios may be determined or provided 
for under subsection (1) or (2).
#\  
 
#\
86.  Business capacity of manager  
 
(1) A manager may conduct busin ess other than administration subject to the prior approval of the registrar.  
(2) The registrar may on such conditions as he or she may determine approve the application of a manager 
to conduct other business, if the investors in the collective investment  scheme administered by the 
manager are not likely to be prejudiced.
#\  
 
#\
87.  Definition  
 
For the purpose of sections 88 and 89, "liquid form"  means any asset which is capable of being 
liquidated within seven days.
#\
  
#\ 
88.  Capital requirement which manager must m aintain  
 
(1) A manager must on an ongoing basis maintain in liquid form the capital for the matters and risks 
determined by the registrar.  
 
(2) The registrar may exempt the managers of a particular category of collective investment schemes from 
any or all the requirements referred to in subsection (1) and determine capital requirements for such 
managers.  
 
(3) The registrar may exempt a manager from compliance with the requirements of this section for such 
period, not exceeding six months, and on such condit ions as he or she may lay down.  
 
(4) A manager who ceases to comply with subsection (1), and who has not been exempted under 
subsection (3), must within 30 days notify the registrar in writing to that effect. 
#\
 
#\ 
89.  Obligation of manager to maintain capital requirement and failure to comply  
 
(1) A manager may not be registered or allowed to continue as a manager, unless at the time of registration 
and at all times thereafter the manager has nett assets in liquid form which exceed the minimum capital 
requireme nt determined under section 88.  
 
(2) A manager who, immediately before the commencement of this Act, was a management company 
registered under any law repealed by this Act, must within 60 days after such commencement comply 
with the capital requirement det ermined under section 88.
#\  

#\
90.  Financial statements and other information to be furnished by manager  
 
(1) A manager must  - 
 
(a) not later than 90 days after the close of its financial year, send to the registrar a copy of the 
manager's duly audited financial statements and those of every portfolio of the collective 
investment scheme administered by the manager; and  
(b) on or before a date specified by the registrar, lodge with the registrar such further information and 
explanations in connection wit h the financial and other statements referred to as the registrar may 
request.  
 
(2) A manager must, not later than 90 days after the close of the financial year of every portfolio of the 
collective investment scheme administered by the manager, send to eve ry investor in such portfolio a 
report relating to the portfolio containing the information determined by the registrar.  
 
(3) Copies of the financial statements, other statements or information referred to in subsections (1) and (2) 
must be kept available at every office of the manager or of its authorised agents for inspection during 
ordinary office hours by any investor in the collective investment scheme concerned or other person 
interested in investing in a participatory interest in such scheme.  
 
(4) A manager must, in the manner determined by the registrar, lodge with the registrar  - 
 
(a) copies of all advertisements, brochures, pamphlets, circulars and announcements published or 
proposed to be published by the manager or any of its authorised agents, a nd of all proposed 
additions thereto and variations thereof, signed and certified, in the manner determined by the 
registrar, by or on behalf of the directors of the manager, unless the manager is exempted from 
such an obligation by the registrar; and  
 
(b) a copy of every return or notice which the manager is required to furnish to the Companies and 
Intellectual Property Commission  under section s 70(6) and 85 of the Companies Act . 
(Section  90(4)(b)  substituted  by section 2 33 of Act 45 of 2013) 
#\
 
#\ 
91.  Exercise  of voting power by manager  
 
A manager or its nominee exercising the voting power conferred on it by the assets held in a portfolio , 
must exercise such power in the best interest of the investors.
#\
  
#\ 
92.  Unauthorised gain derived from acquisition of assets  
 
A manager, director or employee of a manager may not directly or indirectly have a personal interest in 
or derive any pecuniary advantage from the acquisition or sale by them of any assets of a portfolio 
except if such advantage accrues in the ordinary cou rse of business to them by virtue of  - 
 
(a) any difference between the price at which a participatory interest is acquired and the price at 
which it is subsequently sold; or  
 
(b) any underwriting of participatory interests done by a manager, director or em ployee. 
#\ 
 
#\
93.  Permissible deductions from portfolio   
(1) The amounts which may be deducted from a portfolio are  - 
 
(a) charges payable on the buying or selling of assets for the portfolio such as brokerage, marketable 
securities tax, value -added tax or stamp duties;  
 
(b) auditor's fees, bank charges, trustee and custodian fees and other levies or taxes;  
 
(c) share creation fees payable to the Registrar of Companies for the creation of authorised capital 
or, in the case of a collective investment scheme in property, the costs incurred in the creation 
and issue of participatory interests;  
 
(d) the agreed and disclosed service charges of the manager; and  
 
(e) any costs incurred as a result of a collective investment scheme in property being listed on an 
exc hange.  
 
(2) Amounts other than those referred to in subsection (1) may not be deducted by a manager from a 
portfolio unless determined by the registrar.
#\  
 
#\
94.  Calculation of price and limitation of amount of rounding -off accrual  
 
(1) 
(a) Subject to paragrap h (b), a manager may not sell any participatory interest at a price which 
exceeds or is less than the net asset value of that participatory interest.  
 
(b) Where participatory interests in a new portfolio are offered to the public for the first time, the 
ma nager may make an initial offer  - 
 
(i) on a specified date;  
 
(ii) for a specified period;  
 
(iii) of a specific number of participatory interests at a fixed price based on the price of the 
participatory interests on a previous date not more than 28 days pri or to the closing date of 
the offer.  
 
(2) In making payment to the investors in a portfolio of a distribution of income accruals on the participatory 
interests belonging to them, a manager may round off to the  nearest one cent, any amount so paid in 
respec t of such number of participatory interests as represents the minimum number which, in terms of 
the portfolio's deed, must be purchased at any one time, but any amount which, by virtue of such 
rounding -off, is left in the portfolio, must be carried forward  to the credit of investors in the next ensuing 
distribution.
#\  
 
#\
95.  Sale of participatory interests only on payment of full purchase price and restriction on lending 
or borrowing of money  
 
(1) A manager may not  - 
 
(a) sell or offer for sale any participatory interest except on terms requiring payment of the full selling 
price of the participatory interest to be made upon the acceptance by the manager or any of its 
duly authorised agents, of the investor's offer for the purchase of the participato ry interest; or  
 
(b) lend or advance any money.  
 
(2) A manager, other than a manager of a collective investment scheme in securities, may for the account 
of a portfolio borrow money for the purposes and subject to the limits and conditions determined in th e 
deed.
#\  
 
#\
96.  Power of manager to borrow money to bridge insufficient liquidity in a portfolio  
 
In the case where insufficient liquidity exists in a portfolio or where assets cannot be realised to 
repurchase or cancel participatory interests, the manager of  a collective investment scheme in securities 
may borrow the necessary funds for such repurchase or cancellation on security of the assets and for 
the account of the portfolio in question, from a registered financial institution at the best commercial 
term s available and until assets can be realised to repay such a loan: Provided that the maximum 
amount so borrowed may not exceed 10 per cent of the market value of such portfolio at the time of 
borrowing.
#\  
 
#\
97.  Matters which must be provided for in deed and e xemption from and suspension of provision of 
deed  
 
(1) Every deed must set out the requirements for the administration of a portfolio and it must contain, 
amongst others and as far as they can be applied, provisions to regulate the matters detailed in Sche dule 
1 in respect of a collective investment scheme in securities and those detailed in Schedule 2 in respect 
of a collective investment scheme in property.  
 
(2) The registrar may by notice in the Gazette  exempt a particular type or category of collective investment 
schemes from the provisions of subsection (1) and determine the matters to be complied with or to be 
provided for in a deed by such type or category of collective investment schemes.  
(a) The registrar , if a provision of a deed is not in the best interests of  investors or does not afford 
sufficient protection to investors , may by notice in the Gazette  suspend a provision of any deed 
and  – 
 
(i)  determine the matters to be complied with ; or  
 
(ii) determine  the matters in respect of  and the period within  which any deed must be 
amended.  
 
(b) Where the registrar, under paragraph (a)(ii), has determined matters in  respect of and the period 
within which a deed must be amended, and the deed is not  amended to the satisfaction of the 
regist rar or within the determined period, the  registrar may amend the deed.  
 
(c)  If the registrar has amended a deed under paragraph (b), the deed must be  regarded as having 
been amended in accordance with the requirements of this Act,  despite all parties to t hat deed 
not having agreed to or signed the deed.  
(Section 97(3) substituted  by section 2 34 of Act 45 of 2013) 
#\

#\
98.  Void provisions of deed and amendment of deed  
 
(1) A provision in a deed which is inconsistent with this Act is void.  
 
(2) 
(a) The parties to a deed may by supplemental deed amend a deed but no amendment of a deed is 
valid unless the consent thereto of a majority in value of investors has been obtained in the 
manner prescribed in the deed.  
 
(b) If the registrar is satisfied that any such amen dment  - 
 
(i) is required only to enable the provisions of this Act or of the deed to be given effect to more 
conveniently or economically;  
 
(ii) will benefit the investors;  
 
(iii) will not prejudice the interests of investors;  
 
(iv)  does not amend the fundamental provisions or objects of the deed; and  
 
(v) does not release the trustee, custodian or the manager from any responsibility to the 
investors,  
 
he or she may direct that such consent be dispensed with.   
(3) Subject to subsection (2), a deed which  immediately prior to the date of commencement of this Act was 
a deed in terms of any law repealed by this Act, must within 12 months from the date of commencement 
of this Act be amended, supplemented or replaced in order to comply fully with the requireme nts of this 
Act. 
#\
 
#\ 
99.  Amalgamation of business of collective investment schemes or portfolios and cession, transfer 
or take -over of rights of investors  
 
(1) The business of two or more collective investment schemes or two or more portfolios of a collective  
investment scheme may not be amalgamated, and the rights of the investors in a portfolio may not be 
ceded or transferred to or be taken over by any other portfolio or collective investment scheme, except 
with the prior consent of  - 
 
(a) investors holding a majority in value of participatory interests in each collective investment 
scheme or portfolio (hereinafter referred to as an original scheme or portfolio) to which a proposed 
amalgamation, cession, transfer or take -over refers; and  
 
(b) the Authority, granted on such conditions as the Authority may impose in writing.  
(Section 99(1)(b)  substituted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
 
(2) A copy of the transaction (hereinafter referred to as the proposed transaction) whereby th e proposed 
amalgamation, cession, transfer or take - over is to be effected and such other particulars as may be 
necessary to enable the registrar to exercise his or her powers under this section, must be submitted to 
the registrar by the parties to the pro posed transaction.  
 
(3) The registrar may grant his or her consent under subsection (1)(b) only if he or she is satisfied that  - 
 
(a) every investor, of whose address the manager is aware, in an original scheme or portfolio has 
been furnished in writing, w ithin a reasonable period before the date determined by the registrar, 
with particulars of the proposed transaction and of the procedure which the parties concerned 
intend to follow, so as to ensure that every such investor shall, on the date on which the proposed 
transaction becomes effective, hold in the new scheme or portfolio such participatory interests 
with an aggregate money value which is not less than the lower of the nett asset value or market 
value, as may be fair and reasonable in the circumstan ces, of the participatory interests which 
such investor, immediately before the date on which the proposed transaction becomes effective, 
held in an original scheme or portfolio;  
 
(b) the proposed transaction will not be detrimental to any investor in an o riginal scheme or portfolio; 
and  
(c) investors holding a majority in value of participatory interests in an original scheme or portfolio 
have not notified the manager in writing on or before a date determined by the registrar and 
disclosed by the manager in writing to every investor, that they refused consent to the proposed 
transaction.  
 
(4) When a proposed transaction becomes effective  - 
 
(a) the provisions of the deed of the new scheme or portfolio or of the scheme or portfolio which 
acquired rights by amalgamation, cession, transfer or take -over bind the investors in an original 
scheme or portfolio;  
 
(b) all the assets of an original scheme or portfolio vest in and form part of the new scheme or portfolio 
or, as the case may be, the scheme or portfolio which acquired such assets by amalgamation, 
cession, transfer or take -over;  
 
(c) the provisions of the deed of the new scheme or portfolio or of the scheme or portfolio which 
acquired rights by amalgamation, cession, transfer or take -over, apply to the ass ets referred to in 
paragraph (b) and to any income accruals or other benefits which accrue therefrom to investors; 
and  
 
(d) an investor in an original scheme or portfolio acquires participatory interests in the new scheme 
or portfolio or in the scheme or p ortfolio which acquired rights by amalgamation, cession, transfer 
or take -over, having the same aggregate money value as that of the participatory interests held, 
immediately before the date on which the proposed transaction became effective, by such 
inves tor in an original scheme or portfolio.  
 
(5) If a proposed transaction becomes effective, every Registrar of Deeds in whose deeds registry property 
or other rights are registered in the name of or in favour of an original scheme or portfolio  - 
 
(a) on production to him or her of a certificate in which the registrar states that  - 
 
(i) he or she in terms of subsection (1)(b) has granted consent to the proposed transaction; 
and  
 
(ii) the amalgamation, cession, transfer or take -over in question has been car ried out properly; 
and  
 
(b) on production to him or her of the title deed or other deed or document in question,  
 
must, on such title deed or other deed or document and in his or her registers or other books, make 
such endorsements and entries as may be ne cessary as a result of the said amalgamation, cession, 
transfer or take -over to effect or record the transfer of the said property or other rights to the new scheme 
 or portfolio or, as the case may be, to the scheme or portfolio acquiring rights by means o f the 
amalgamation, cession, transfer or take -over in question.  
 
(6) Except in so far as this section provides otherwise, an amalgamation, cession, transfer or take -over in 
terms of this section does not derogate from the rights of any creditor or any obli gation relating to an 
original scheme or portfolio.  
 
(7) No registration or other fees are payable in respect of any endorsement or entry made in terms of 
subsection (5), and no fees are payable in respect of the issue of a substituting participatory inter est or 
the transfer of assets as a result of any amalgamation, cession, transfer or take -over in terms of this 
section.  
(Section 99(7) substituted  by section 110  of Act 35 of 200 7) 
(Section 99(7) substituted  by section 69 of Act 3 of 200 8)
#\ 
 
#\
100.  Contents of price list, advertisement, brochure and similar document  
 
(1) If in any price list, advertisement, brochure or similar document published by a manager or by any of its 
authorised agents for the purpose of soliciting the sale of participatory interests i n a collective investment 
scheme, the price of any participatory interest is mentioned or a particular portfolio is referred to, the 
undermentioned particulars must be clearly set out therein with reference to each such participatory 
interest or portfolio,  namely  - 
 
(a) the charges that may be levied by the manager, the method of calculation and the quantum of 
those charges and the time when they may be levied; and  
 
(b) the basis on which the manager undertakes to repurchase participatory interests offered to it and 
the basis on which selling and repurchase prices will be calculated in accordance with this Act 
and the terms and conditions of the deed.  
 
(2) Any reference in any price list, advertisement, brochure or similar document published by a manager or 
by any of its authorised agents, to the yield to be derived from any participatory interest offered for sale 
by the manager, must be confined  - 
 
(a) in the case of any such document published after the expiry of a period of 12 months following 
the date of the first offer of participatory interests to the public, to particulars of the yield, calculated 
in the manner specified in the deed, for the last preceding period of 12 months for which a 
distribution has been declared, and a statement as to any facts li kely to influence future yield; and  
 
(b) in the case of any such document published within the first - mentioned period, to information as 
to the probable yield calculated in a manner clearly set out in such document.  
(3) If, in any price list, advertiseme nt, brochure or similar document published by a manager or by any of 
its authorised agents, it is stated that investors in a portfolio of the collective investment scheme are 
entitled to participate in its profits, there must also be stated what amount was  so distributed during the 
previous financial year, expressed as a percentage of the aggregate market value, as at the close of 
that year, of all assets then held on behalf of investors in that portfolio.  
 
(4) There must be included in every price list, ad vertisement, brochure or similar document published by a 
manager or by any of its authorised agents in which participatory interests are commended to the public, 
a statement in clear and unambiguous terms, to the effect that the value of participatory inte rests in a 
portfolio is subject to fluctuation from time to time relative to the market value of the assets comprised 
in the portfolio: Provided that the registrar may, subject to such conditions as he or she may deem fit, 
exempt a manager or any such agen t from the provisions of this subsection in relation to any 
advertisement or any particular type of advertisement which is of such a nature that it would be 
unreasonable to require the manager or such agent to comply with this subsection.
#\  
 
#\
101.  Principal o ffice and public officer in Republic  
 
(1) A manager must maintain a principal office in the Republic , must appoint a public officer in the Republic 
and must notify the registrar in writing, within 30 days after the commencement of this Act, of the location 
and address of that office and of the name of its public officer.  
 
(2) Whenever a manager has change d its principal office or has appointed a new public officer, it must 
within 30 days from such change or appointment give notice in writing thereof to the registrar.  
 
(3) Process in any legal proceedings against a manager may be served at the principal off ice of the 
manager, and if such office is no longer in existence, service upon the registrar is deemed to be service 
upon the manager.
#\  
 
#\
102.  Winding -up of portfolio of collective investment scheme  
 
(1) If at the time, whether before or after the commenceme nt of this Act, when a portfolio was first formed 
under a collective investment scheme, no period was fixed for the duration of that portfolio, the manager, 
trustee or custodian may, on application to the registrar and subject to such terms and conditions as he 
or she may determine, wind up that portfolio at any time.  
 
(2) Despite subsection (1), any competent division of the court may, on the application of a manager, trustee 
or custodian, order any such portfolio to be wound up if the court is satisfied t hat to do so would be in 
the interest of investors in that portfolio.  
 
(3) Upon the winding -up of a portfolio in terms of this section the manager must under the control and 
supervision of the trustee or custodian realise all the assets of such portfolio a s soon as possible having 
regard to the interest of investors, but the manager incurs no liability by reason of the exercise in good 
faith of its discretion as to the time of realisation of any assets unless the discretion is exercised in a 
grossly neglige nt manner.  
 
(4) The net proceeds of the realisation of such assets must be deposited in the trust account referred to in 
section 105 and must under the control and supervision of the trustee or custodian be distributed by the 
manager or the trustee or cust odian, as the case may be, amongst the investors and the manager in 
proportion to their respective participatory or other interests in the portfolio.  
 
(5) Pending the realisation of the assets in such winding -up the manager, trustee or custodian must on 
behalf of the collective investment scheme collect all income accruals in respect of such portfolio and 
must deposit and distribute the amounts collected in the manner prescribed in subsection (4).  
 
(6) Despite the provisions of the Companies Act, 1973 (Act No. 61 of 1973), this section and sections 103 
and 104 of this Act must be applied to the winding -up of a portfolio of an open -ended investment 
company and none of the assets of a portfolio administered by such a company may be utilised for the 
payment of any claim of a creditor of the company.
#\
  
#\ 
103.  Manner of dealing with trust property on winding -up of portfolio  
 
(1) The registrar may with the approval of the court which has issued an order under section 102, if it 
appears to him or her that it would be i n the interest of investors to continue the collective investment 
scheme for a period of time, direct the manager, trustee or custodian to postpone the realisation of any 
assets for such period or periods,  not exceeding five years at a time, as the registr ar may determine 
and, pending such realisation, to carry on the scheme in accordance with the registrar's directions and 
to collect and deal with all income accruals, bonuses and other distributions in accordance with 
subsections (4) and (5) of section 102 . 
 
(2) A manager, trustee or custodian acting in accordance with a direction of the registrar given in terms of 
subsection (1) may terminate his or her functions as manager, trustee or custodian on giving six months' 
notice in writing to the registrar, and  the registrar may thereupon appoint some other fit and proper 
person to take over the functions of the manager, trustee or custodian, subject to such conditions as the 
registrar may stipulate.  
 
(3) As remuneration for any services rendered in terms of this section a manager, trustee or custodian or a 
person appointed by the registrar to take over the functions of a manager, trustee or custodian is entitled 
to a fee, calculated at such rate as the registrar may determine, on all moneys received by him or  her in 
carrying out his or her duties under this section, and the registrar may authorise the amount of such fee 
to be deducted, in such proportions as he or she may determine, from income accruals or any moneys 
realised by the sale of assets in terms of this section.
#\  
 
#\
104.  Separation of assets of portfolio handed to or received by manager, trustee or custodian  
For the purposes of a claim against a manager, trustee or custodian there must be excluded from the 
assets of the manager, trustee or custodian  - 
 
(a) any money or other assets handed to that manager, trustee or custodian or its authorised agents 
by an investor for the sale or repurchase of a participatory interest; and  
 
(b) the assets of a portfolio.
#\  
 
#\
105.  Separation of funds of investors and other  persons  
 
(1) A manager must open and maintain a separate operational trust account controlled by the trustee or 
custodian for each or for all the portfolios administered under its collective investment scheme at a 
registered bank and must on the date of r eceipt of any payment in cash, cheque, draft or other instrument 
from or on behalf of an investor or on the first business day thereafter, deposit in such account either 
the cash, cheque, draft or other instrument by means of which such payment is made or,  alternatively, 
deposit for same day value in such account funds equal to the amount of such payment.  
 
(2) Funds deposited into an operational trust account referred to in subsection (1) may only be withdrawn 
for the purposes of making payment  - 
 
(a) to th e investor, person or manager entitled to such payment; or  
 
(b) in terms of this Act, any other law and the deed: Provided that if after such withdrawal any 
deposited cheque, draft or other instrument against which such withdrawal was made is not 
subsequen tly honoured, the manager must immediately pay the shortfall arising from such default 
into the operational trust account or cancel any participatory interest issued in respect of such 
defaulting payment.  
 
(3) Any excess remaining in the operational trust account after payment of or provision for all claims of 
investors whose funds have, or should have been deposited in such account, is not trust property as 
determined in section 71.  
 
(4) The division of the court having jurisdiction over a manager may, on application by an association or the 
registrar or by any other person having a financial interest in or claim against an operational trust 
account, on good cause shown, prohibit such manager from operating such account in any way and 
may appoint a curator to control and administer such account with such d uties and powers in relation 
thereto as the court may deem fit.
#\  
 
#\
106.  False or misleading statements  
 
No person may make a statement or disseminate information which he or she knows, or ought 
reasonably to know, is false or misleading or is likely or intended to  -    
(a) induce other persons to purchase or deal in a participatory interest; or  
 
(b) have the effect of inflating, depressing or maintaining the price of a participatory interest. 
#\
 
#\ 
107.  Fraudulently inducing person to purchase or deal in participatory interests  
 
No person may  - 
 
(a) by making or publishing any statement, promise or forecast which he or she knows is likely or 
intended to be misleading, false or deceptive; or  
 
(b) by concealing material  information at his or her disposal,  
 
induce another person to purchase or deal in a participatory interest.
#\
  
#\ 
108.  Evidence  
 
A record purporting to have been made or kept in the ordinary course of the business of a collective 
investment scheme, or a copy o f or an extract from such record duly certified to be correct, is on its 
mere production by the State in any criminal proceedings admissible as evidence of the facts contained 
in such record, copy or extract.
#\  
 
#\
109.  Liability for loss  
 
(1) 
(a) A person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this Act or any rule or directive 
of an association, or regulation, notice or directive under this Act is liable to any other person for 
any loss or damage suffered by that person as a result of such con travention or failure.  
 
(b) The defences applying to an action for damages in respect of a breach of a statutory duty are 
available to any defendant in an action contemplated in paragraph (a).  
 
(2) A person who contravenes a provision of section 106 or 107  is liable to pay damages to any other person 
who, by dealing in or purchasing a participatory interest, suffers a loss as a result of the difference 
between the price at which the dealing takes place and the price at which it is likely to have taken place  
if the contravention had not occurred.  
 
(3) The amount of damages for which a person is liable in terms of subsection (2) is limited to twice the 
profit gained or likely to be gained, or loss avoided or likely to be avoided, by him or her as a result of 
the relevant contravention.  
(4) An action contemplated in subsection (1) or (2) does not lie after the expiration of a period of three years 
commencing  - 
 
(a) in a case contemplated in subsection (1), on the day of the relevant contravention or failure; or  
 
(b) in a case contemplated in subsection (2), on the day of completion of the dealing in which the 
loss occurred.  
 
(5) The registrar may bring an action in a competent court in the name of, and for the benefit of, an investor 
or a specific group of inves tors for recovery of damages for a loss referred to in subsection (2).  
 
(6) Nothing contained in this section affects any liability which a person may incur under the common law 
or any other law but any damages previously awarded in terms of this section w hich arise from the same 
cause must be taken into consideration for purposes of any further claim referred to in this subsection.
#\
  
#\ 
110.  Certain written matter to bear names of certain persons  
 
No person may publish or issue to the public or circulate any w ritten comment which may influence the 
value of any participatory interest unless such comment is accompanied by  - 
 
(a) the name of the person who compiled the comment, or the name of the person on the editorial 
staff of a newspaper or periodical whom the editor regards as having compiled the comment; or  
 
(b) disclosure of the source from which the comment was obtained, or the information on which it 
was based.
#\  
 
#\
111.  Application of Companies Act in relation to manager  
 
(1) Except where this Act expressly pr ovides otherwise, the ap plication of the Companies Act to a manager 
is not affected by this Act.  
(Section 111(1) substituted by section 2 35(a)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(2) 
(a) Despite section 5 of the Companies Act, section 48 of the said Act does  not apply to an open -
ended investment company.  
 
(b) Despite section 5 of the Companies Act,  Chapter 4  of the said Act does not apply to any offer of 
participatory interests to members of the public or to investors by an open -ended investment 
company or a foreign collec tive investment scheme approved in terms of section 65.  
(Section 111(2) substituted by section 2 35(a)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
(3) In the application of section 82 of the Companies Act to a manager, the  Master must also file promptly 
with the registrar a copy of the documentation referred to in subsection (1)  of that section.  
(Section 111(3) substituted by section 2 35(a)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(4) ……. … 
(Section 111(4) deleted by section 2 35( b) of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(5) The registrar may, in respect of any manager being wound up  or being subject to business rescue 
proceedings , in writing direct the liquidator or the  business rescue practitioner , as the case may be, to 
furnish him or her with a copy of any particular account, return statement s or other document which the 
liquidator or  the business rescue practitioner  is required under any provision of the Companies Act to 
furnish to the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission or the Master, or to furn ish him or her 
from time to time with copies of all or any of such accounts, returns, statements or documents as and 
when they are furnished to the said Commission or to the Master.  
(Section 111(5) substituted by section 2 35(c)  of Act 45 of 2013)  
 
(6) Immediately after the confirmation of the final account in the winding -up of a manager, the Master of the 
High Court concerned must give the registrar notice thereof.
#\  
 
#\
111A.  Business rescue of manager  
 
(1)  Despite the provisions of the Companies Act or a ny other law  under which a manager is incorporated, 
Chapter 6 of the Companies Act  applies subject to this section and with the changes required by the 
context,  in relation to the business rescue of a manager whether or not it is a  company.  
 
(2)  The regis trar may make an application under section 131 of the  Companies Act in respect of a manager 
if the registrar is satisfied, whether  as contemplated in section 88 or 89 of this Act, or otherwise, that it 
is in  interests of investors.  
 
(3)  The resolution of a manager to begin business rescue proceedings, the  appointment of a business 
rescue practitioner, the adoption of a business  rescue plan and the exercise of a power by the business 
rescue practitioner  under the Companies Act, are subject to the approval o f the registrar.  
 
(4)  In the application of Chapter 6 of the Companies Act  — 
 
(a)  a reference to the Commission, shall be construed as a reference also  to the registrar;  
 
(b)  a reference to creditors, shall be construed as a reference also to  investors;  
 
(c)  a reference relating to the ability of a manager to pay all its debts, shall  be construed as relating 
also to its inability to comply with sections 88  and 89 of this Act; and     
(d)  there shall, in addition to any question relating to the business of  a manager, be considered also 
the question whether any cause of action  is in the interests of investors.  
 
(5)  If an application to a Court for an order relating to the business rescue  of a manager is made by an 
affected person other than the registrar  — 
 
(a)  it shall not be heard unless copies of the notice of motion and of all  accompanying affidavits and 
other documents filed in support of the  application are lodged with the registrar before the 
application is set  down for hearing;   
 
(b)  the registrar may, if satisfied that the application is not in the interests  of the investors of the 
manager concerned, join the application as a  party and file affidavits and other documents in 
opposition to the  application.   
 
(6)  As from the date upon which a busines s rescue practitioner is  appointed, the business rescue 
practitioner of a manager shall not issue any  fresh participatory interests, unless the practitioner has 
been granted  permission to do so by a court.  
(Section 111A inserted by section 2 36 of Act 45 of  2013)
#\
  
#\ 
112.  Delegation of functions  
 
(1) The Minister may delegate any power conferred upon him or her by this Act to the Director -General: 
Finance or any other officer in the National Treasury, the Board, an association or the registrar.  
 
(2) An association may  - 
 
(a) on such conditions as the association may determine, delegate to the chairperson, executive 
officer or any other officer or employee of the association any power conferred upon the 
association by or under this Act, including a power delegated to the association under this Act; or  
 
(b) authorise the chairperson, the executive officer or any other officer or employee of the association 
to perform any duty assigned to the association by or under this Act.  
 
(3) ……….  
(Section 112(3)  delete d by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
 
(4) Any delegation under subsection (1) or (2) (a) does not prohibit the exercise of the power in question by 
the Minister, association or Authority, as the case may be . 
(Section 112(4)  sub stituted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 )
#\ 
 
#\
113.  Exemption from Act 57 of 1988    
The Trust Property Control Act, 1988 (Act No. 57 of 1988), does not apply in respect of a collective 
investment scheme administered in terms of th is Act.
#\  
 
#\
114.  Regulations by Minister and notices by registrar  
 
(1) The Minister may make regulations as to any matter which is required or permitted by this Act to be 
prescribed under this Act.  
 
(2) The Minister may make different regulations  - 
 
(a) in respect of a manager which is or a manager which is not a member of an association, different 
types of collective investment schemes or different types of portfolios;  
 
(b) prescribing, generally, any matter, whether or not connected with any matter specifi ed in 
subsection (1), which is necessary or expedient to prescribe or to regulate in order for the objects 
of this Act to be achieved, but the generality of this provision is not limited by subsection (1).  
 
(3) The registrar may, for the purposes of this Act, by notice in the Gazette  determine  - 
 
(a) the records to be kept and furnished to the registrar by a manager;  
 
(b) the forms, returns, documents or information and the manner and time limits for the lodgemen t 
with or transmission to the registrar or any other person;  
 
(c) the manner in which and the period within which  - 
 
(i) application for the renewal of an association licence must be made; or  
 
(ii) notice must be given of the issue, cancellation or suspens ion of an association licence;  
 
(d) matters in addition to those contemplated in any other provision of this Act in respect of which 
fees are payable, the fee payable in respect of each such matter, and, in relation to such fees as 
well as fees payable und er any such other provision of this Act, the persons by whom the fees 
are payable, the manner of payment thereof and, where it is deemed necessary, the payment of 
interest in respect of overdue fees;  
 
(e) rules for the conduct of a collective investment sc heme by a manager who is not a member of an 
association; and  
 
(f) the circumstances under which the manager of a collective investment scheme in securities may 
suspend the repurchase of participatory interests and the conditions of such suspension: 
Provide d that any offer of participatory interests for repurchase by an investor, the aggregate 
amount or value of which does not exceed the amount specified by the registrar, on the day of 
such offer, is excluded from any suspension.  
 
(4) The registrar may issue  different notices  - 
 
(a) in respect of a manager which is or a manager which is not a member of an association, different 
types of collective investment schemes or different types of portfolios;  
 
(b) determining, generally, any matter, whether or not conn ected with any matter specified in 
subsection (3), which is necessary or expedient to determine in order for the objects of this Act to 
be achieved, but the generality of this provision is not limited by subsection (3).  
 
(5) ……… . 
(Section 114(5) substitute d by section 2 37 of Act 45 of 2013)  
(Section 114(5)  deleted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
 
(6) Fees which are by virtue of a provision of this Act payable, and interest so payable in respect of overdue 
fees, are a debt due  to the Board and may be recovered by the registrar by action in any competent 
court.  
 
(7) A regulation may provide for penalties for a contravention thereof or failure to comply therewith.
#\  
 
#\
115.  Offences  
 
Any person who  - 
 
(a) contravenes or fails to comply with the provisions of sections 6, 68, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 106, 107 
or 110;  
 
(b) not being a manager or an authorised agent of a manager, performs an act amounting to 
administration; or  
 
(c) fails to comply with any direction, requirement, notice, r ule, regulatory instrument or regulation 
under any provision of this Act or the Financial Sector Regulation Act , 
(Section 115(c)  substituted  by section 290 of Act 9 of 2017,  with effect from 1 April 2018 ) 
 
is guilty of an offence.
#\  
 
#\
116.  Penalties 
 
Subject to the provisions of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1997 (Act No. 105 of 1997), regarding 
minimum sentences for serious offences, any person who is, in terms of any provision of this Act, guilty 
of an offence in respect of which no penalty is specifically  provided, is liable to a fine not exceeding R10 
million or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 10 years or to both such  fine and such 
imprisonment.  
(Section 116 substituted  by section 2 38 of Act 45 of 2013)
#\
  
#\ 
117.  Repeal or amendment of laws and savings  
 
(1) Subject to subsection (2), the laws set out in Schedule 3 are hereby repealed or amended to the extent 
set out in the third column thereof.  
 
(2) Anything done under any provision of a law repealed or amended by subsection (1), and which could 
be done under a provision of this Act, is regarded as having been done under the last -mentioned 
provision.  
 
(3) 
(a) A management company or a trustee which immediately before the date of commencement of 
this Act was registered as such under the Unit Trusts  Control Act, 1981 (Act No. 54 of 1981), is 
regarded, from the date of such commencement, as being registered as a manager or trustee 
under this Act.  
 
(b) The registrar must issue to a manager or trustee referred to in paragraph (a) a certificate of 
regist ration in terms of this Act.
#\  
 
#\
118.  Short title  
 
This Act is called the Collective Investment Schemes Control Act, 2002, and comes into operation on a 
date fixed by the President by proclamation in the Gazette .
#\ 
 
SCHEDULE 1  
 
MATTERS WHICH MUST BE PROVIDED FO R IN DEED OF  
COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME IN SECURITIES  
 
(Section 97)  
 
1. A deed must provide for the requirements applicable to the administration by a manager of a collective 
investment scheme in securities and must, amongst others and as far as applica ble, contain provisions 
regarding the following matters:  
 
(a) The investment policy to be followed in respect of each portfolio;  Page 69 of 77 
 
  
Prepared by:   
(b) the manner in which the assets of a portfolio are to be valued for purposes of calculating the 
selling and repurchase prices of participatory interests;  
   
(c) the frequency of calculation of selling and repurchase prices of participatory interests, and the 
point in time at which such calculations will be performed on a specific day, which point will be 
referred to as th e valuation point;  
 
(d) if assets other than securities listed on an exchange may be included in any portfolio, the basis 
on which the market value of such assets is to be determined for the purposes of determining 
selling and repurchase prices;  
 
(e) the m anner in which and a point in time at which the valuation point will be applied either to the 
creation, sale, repurchase or cancellation of participatory interests;  
 
(f) the manner in which distributions are to be calculated and settled;  
 
(g) the limits, t erms and conditions under which scrip may be lent;  
 
(h) the limits, terms and conditions under which a manager may for the account of a portfolio borrow 
money;  
 
(i) the charges that may be levied and the method of calculation of those charges;  
 
(j) not les s than three months' written notice must be given to every investor of an increase in any 
charge and of any change in the method of calculation which could result in an increase or the 
introduction of any additional charge; and  
 
(k) the manner in which a d eed may be amended.  
 
2. In respect of the repurchase of participatory interests in a portfolio of a collective investment scheme in 
securities, a deed must provide for the following:   
 
(a) It is incumbent on a manager to repurchase any number of participatory interests offered to it;  
 
(b) for the purposes of subitem (a) and subject to subitem (d), the manager must determine a point 
in time by when repurchase requests must be received for the purpose of determining which 
valuation point will be uti lised for the pricing calculation;  
 
(c)   the time determined in terms of subitem (b) may not be changed unless 30 days' prior written notice 
has been given to investors;  
 Page 70 of 77 
 
  
Prepared by:  (d) a manager, when it receives a request for repurchase of participatory interests under 
circumstances determined by the registrar under section 114(3) of the Act  - 
 
(i) may, with the prior consent of the trustee or custodian; or  
 
(ii) must, without delay when the trustee or custodian so requires,  
 
suspend the basis of the repurchase of the relevant participatory interests, if the manager, trustee 
or custodian, as the case may be, is of the opinion that the circumstances referred to warrant the 
suspension in the interest of investors; and  
 
(e) the repurchase of such participatory interest s must be settled in accordance with conditions 
determined by the registrar under section 114(3) of the Act.  
 
SCHEDULE 2  
 
MATTERS WHICH MUST BE PROVIDED FOR IN DEED OF  
COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME IN PROPERTY  
 
(Section 97)  
 
A deed must provide for the requirements applicable to the administration by a manager of a collective 
investment scheme in property and must, amongst others and as far as applicable, contain provisions 
regarding the following matters:   
 
(a) The investment policy to be followed in re spect of each portfolio;  
 
(b) the frequency and basis on which the assets of a portfolio are to be valued;  
 
(c) the manner in which participatory interests are to be created or cancelled;  
 
(d) the manner in which distributions are to be calculated and sett led;  
 
(e) the limits, terms and conditions under which a manager may for the account of a portfolio borrow money;  
 
(f) the charges that may be levied and the method of calculation of those charges;  
 
(g) not less than three months' written notice must be gi ven to every investor of an increase in any charge 
and of any change in the method of calculation which could result in an increase or the introduction of 
any additional charge; and  
 
(h) the manner in which a deed may be amended.  Page 71 of 77 
 
  
Prepared by:   
SCHEDULE 3  
 
LAWS REPEALED  OR AMENDED BY THIS ACT  
 
(Section 117)  
 
 
No. and year   
Short title  Extent of repeal or amendment  
 
Act No. 54 of 1981   
Unit Trusts Control Act, 1981   
Repeal of the whole  
 
Act No. 55 of 1981   
Participation Bonds Act, 1981   
Repeal of the whole  
 
Act No. 51 of 1988   
Financial Institutions Amendment 
Act, 1988   
Repeal of sections 8 to 17  
 
Act No. 64 of 1990   
Financial Institutions Amendment 
Act, 1990   
Repeal of section 12  
 
Act No. 97 of 1990   
Financial Services Board Act, 
1990   
Amendment of section 1 by the substitution 
in the definition of "financial institution" for 
subparagraph (iii) of paragraph (a) of the 
following subparagraph:  
 
"(iii) a collective investment scheme as 
defined in section 1 of the Collective 
Investment Schemes Control Act, 
2002, a manage r, trustee or 
custodian registered in terms of that 
Act, and an authorised agent of such 
a manager ;" 
 
Act No. 54 of 1991   
Financial Institutions Amendment 
Act, 1991   
Repeal of sections 5 to 8  
 
Act No. 83 of 1992   
Financial Institutions Amendment 
Act, 1992   
Repeal of section 30  
 
Act No. 7 of 1993   
Financial Institutions Amendment 
Act, 1993   
Repeal of section 6  Page 72 of 77 
 
  
Prepared by:   
Act No 104 of 1993   
Financial Institutions Second  
Amendment Act, 1993   
Repeal of sections 39 to 49  
 
Act No. 53 of 1996   
Unit Trusts Control Amendment 
Act, 1996   
Repeal of the whole  
 
Act No. 12 of 1998   
Unit Trusts Control Amendment 
Act, 1998   
Repeal of the whole  
 
 
SCHEDULE 4  
 
MATTERS TO BE PROVIDED FOR IN RULES OF ASSOCIATION  
 
(Section 32)  
 
1. Subject to the provisions of the Act and any exemption from or addition to the rules that may be granted 
or required by the registrar in a particular case, the rules of an association  - 
 
(a) must provide to the satisfaction of the registrar  - 
 
(i) for the manner in which and the conditions under which a body corporate qualifies for 
membership of the association;  
 
(ii) for the establishment of an executive committee from members of the association and the 
composition and functions of such a committee;  
 
(iii) for the manner in which and conditions u nder which members are to carry on their business 
so as to ensure compliance with the principles envisaged in section 2 of the Act;  
 
(iv)  for the exclusion from membership if a member is controlled or administered by a person 
who is not of good character a nd high business integrity;  
 
(v) for the financial requirements and requirements in respect of training and experience with 
which a member, its directors and its employees must comply to be admitted as a member;  
 
(vi)  for the exclusion of a body corporate from membership where a director of the body 
corporate, a person concerned in the management of the body corporate or a person who 
has substantial control of the body corporate, would be excluded from membership by 
virtue of the provisions of the Act;  
 Page 73 of 77 
 
  
Prepared by:  (vii) for disclosure of information, including the risks an investor is exposed to;  
 
(viii)  for standards of conduct by members of an association and the investigation of complaints 
in respect of their activities;  
 
(ix)  for co -operation with the registrar by the furnishing of information to him or her in respect 
of the business of the members of an association;  
 
(x) for the equitable and speedy settlement of disputes between members in respect of the 
carrying on of their business;  
 
(xi)  
(aa)  for an appropriate  mechanism whereby a member which has been penalised by a 
committee or a competent person may appeal against the decision of the committee 
or person; and  
 
(bb)  that the membership of a member may not be suspended or terminated unless he 
or she has been inf ormed of the reasons for such suspension or termination and has 
had an opportunity to make representations to the executive committee, and that a 
person who has so made representations to the executive committee is entitled to 
be supplied with a copy of a record of the meeting at which his or her representations 
were considered;  
 
(xii)  for the manner in which and conditions subject to which members of an association may 
advertise the services rendered by them;  
 
(xiii)  
(aa)  for the manner in which fees charg ed by members of an association for their 
services, are disclosed and notified to investors; and  
 
(bb)  for the furnishing by members of an association to their investors of other information 
in respect of the business conducted by the members on behalf of investors;  
 
(xiv)  in respect of a member of an association  - 
 
(aa)  for the recording of the transactions effected by the members of an association, their 
investors and trustee or custodian;  
 
(bb)  for the separation of an investor's funds and other corporea l or incorporeal things 
from the assets of the member;  
 Page 74 of 77 
 
  
Prepared by:  (cc)  for prohibition of the use of funds belonging to one investor to finance the dealings 
of another investor;  
 
(dd)  for prohibition of the use of an investor's funds in operating the member's own 
business; and  
 
(ee)  that a member who buys any participatory interest from an investor or sells any 
participatory interest to an investor on his or her own account, must notify the 
investor concerned in advance that such participatory interest was bought o r sold by 
the member for its own account;  
 
(xv)  that, where relevant, a member must on request make available to an investor all 
information at the member's disposal for determining the current value of a participatory 
interest;  
 
(xvi)  
(aa)  for the manner in which and conditions subject to which a participatory interest in a 
portfolio may be offered to members of the public;  
 
(bb)  for the stoppage or suspension of the administration of a collective investment 
scheme or any part thereof by a member of an ass ociation or the quotation of prices 
in respect of such administration; and  
 
(cc)  for the application of new or amended conditions imposed by an executive 
committee of an association upon the carrying on of existing business;  
 
(xvii)  for ensuring delivery o r settlement in respect of transactions effected by the members of 
an association either by the member's or the association's own arrangements or by means 
of arrangements made by the association with a financial institution or other association;  
 
(xviii)  for the appointment of  - 
 
(aa)  an executive officer by the executive committee; and  
 
(bb)  employees by the executive officer;  
 
(xix)  for the dissolution of the association;  
 
(xx)  for further measures to ensure that the business of the association in question is carried 
on with due regard to the interests of investors; and  
 
(b) may provide to the satisfaction of the registrar  - Page 75 of 77 
 
  
Prepared by:   
(i) for the effective monitoring of compliance with, and enforcement of, the rules or any 
arrangements made by the associatio n with a financial institution or exchange for the 
rendering of services or facilities in respect of the association;  
 
(ii) that a member must render sureties or security to the satisfaction of the executive 
committee, for the discharge of liabilities aris ing out of its activities;  
 
(iii) 
(aa)  that a fidelity fund must be established and maintained for the discharge, up to an 
amount specified in the rules, of outstanding liabilities of a member arising out of its 
activities; and  
 
(bb)  that every member must  contribute to such fund.  
 
2. 
(a) The association must as soon as possible after the granting of a licence, publish its rules in the 
Gazette  in English and any one other official language at the expense of the association 
concerned and furnish the registra r with a copy thereof.  
 
(b) No amendment, other than a suspension, of the rules is valid, unless  - 
 
(i) the fee prescribed by the registrar has been paid;  
 
(ii) it has been approved by the registrar in writing;  
 
(iii) a date has been stipulated in the registrar's approval for the coming into operation of such 
amendment; or  
 
(iv)  it is consistent with this Act.  
 
(c) The registrar must, after considering any objection contemplated in paragraph (f), approve or 
disapprove an amendment referred to in paragra ph (b) within a period of 60 days after expiry of 
the period referred to in paragraph (f).  
 
(d) If the registrar does not disapprove of an amendment referred to in paragraph (b) within a period 
of 60 days after expiry of the period referred to in paragraph  (f), the registrar is regarded as having 
approved it and such amendment comes into operation on the day immediately following upon 
the date of expiry of the aforesaid period of 60 days.  
 Page 76 of 77 
 
  
Prepared by:  (e) Upon receipt of an application for approval in terms of paragrap h (b), the registrar must cause to 
be published at the expense of the association in English and any one other official language in 
the Gazette  a notice setting forth the proposed amendment.  
 
(f) The said notice must call upon all interested persons, other  than members of the association 
concerned, who have any objection to the proposed amendment to lodge their objection with the 
registrar within a period of 30 days from the date of publication of the notice in the Gazette . 
 
3. A rule made under this sectio n is binding on all members and on all officers or employees of members 
and on every person utilising the services of a member or who concludes a transaction with a member 
in the course of that member's business.  
 
4. 
(a) A rule may, in respect of each cont ravention or failure to comply therewith by a member or an 
officer or employee of a member, specify one or more of the following penalties:  
   
(i) A reprimand;  
 
(ii) censure;  
 
(iii) a fine not exceeding one million rand, which amount is payable to the fund  referred to in of 
item 1(b)(iii) or, if such fund does not exist, to the relevant association;  
 
(iv)  suspension or cancellation of membership; or  
 
(v) a direction to a member to terminate the employment of an officer or employee.  
 
(b) The rule contemplate d in paragraph (a) may also specify that full particulars regarding the 
imposition of a penalty must be published and that any member, officer or employee who 
contravenes or fails to comply with a rule may be ordered to pay the costs incurred in the 
invest igation or hearing in question.  
 
5. Whenever the registrar considers it desirable in the public interest, he or she may, after consultation 
with the executive committee of an association, amend the rules of that association by notice in the 
Gazette . 
 
6. 
(a) Subject to the prior approval of the registrar, an executive committee may suspend any of the 
rules of an association for a period not exceeding 90 days at a time and may during such 
suspension by resolution likewise approved issue a directive to regul ate the matter in question 
until such time as an appropriate amendment of the rules can be made in terms of this item.  
 Page 77 of 77 
 
  
Prepared by:  (b) Items 3 and 4 apply in respect of any contravention of or non - compliance with a directive.  
 
 
 
 
 
 