 
 
Prepared by:  (1 July 2018  – to date)  
 
[This is the  current  version and applies as  from  1 July 2018 , i.e. the date of commencement of certain sections of the Insurance Act 18 
of 2017  – to date ] 
  
INSURANCE ACT 18 OF 2017  
 
(Government Notice 32 in Government Gazette 4138 8 dated 18 January 2018. Commencement date:  
1 July 2018  [Government Notice No. 639  in Gazette No. 41735  dated 27 June 2018 ]) 
 
_______________  
(English text signed by the President)  
(Assented to 17 January 2018)  
_______________  
 
ACT  
 
To provide for a legal framework for the prudential regulation and supervision of  insurance business 
in the Republic that is consistent with the Constitution of the  Republic of South Africa, 1996, and 
promotes the maintenance of a fair, safe and  stable insurance market; to intro duce a legal framework 
for microinsurance to  promote financial inclusion; to replace certain parts of the Long -term Insurance  
Act, 1998, and the Short -term Insurance Act, 1998; and to provide for matters  connected therewith.  
 
BE IT ENACTED by the Parliamen t of the Republic of South Africa, as  follows: — 
 
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS  
 
CHAPTER 1  
INTERPRETATION AND OBJECTIVE OF ACT  
 
#1.  Definitions  
#2.  General interpretation of Act  
#3.  Objective of Act  
 
CHAPTER 2  
CONDUCTING INSURANCE BUSINESS AND INSURANCE GROUP  BUS INESS  
 
Part 1  
General principles for conducting insurance business or insurance group business  
 
#4.  Principles  
 Page 2 of 148  
 
 
Prepared by:  Part 2  
Insurance business and other business of insurers  
 
#5.  Insurance business and limitations on other business  
 
Part 3  
Branches of foreign r einsurers and Lloyd ’s underwriters  
 
#6.  Conducting of insurance business by branches of foreign reinsurers and  Lloyd ’s underwriters  
#7.  Claims against branches of foreign reinsurers or Lloyd ’s underwriters  
 
Part 4  
Insurance groups  
 
#8.  Application of Part  
#9.  Notification by insurer on becoming part of group of companies  
#10.  Designation of insurance group and licensing of controlling company  
#11.  Responsibility of board of directors of controlling company  
#12.  Transparent insurance group structure  
 
CHAPTER  3 
KEY PERSONS AND SIGNIFICANT OWNERS  
 
Part 1  
Fit and proper requirements  
 
#13.  Fit and proper requirements for key persons and significant owners  
 
Part 2  
Appointment and termination of key persons  
 
#14.  Approval of appointment of certain key persons  
#15.  Notification of appointment and change of circumstances of certain key  persons  
#16.  Termination of appointment of key persons  
 
Part 3  
Changes in control of insurer or controlling company and nominees  
 
#17.  Changes in control of insurer or controlling compa ny 
#18.  Registration of shares in name of nominee  
 
Part 4  Page 3 of 148  
 
 
Prepared by:  Key persons or significant owners not fit and proper  
 
#19.  Key person or significant owner not fit and proper or no longer fit and proper  
#20.  Assessing if key person or significant owner is fit and  proper  
 
CHAPTER 4  
LICENSING, SUSPENSION AND WITHDRAWAL OF LICENCE  
 
#21.  Application of Chapter  
#22.  Requirements for licence  
#23.  Licensing  
#24.  Lloyd ’s underwriters and Lloyd ’s licensed  
#25.  Licence conditions  
#26.  Variation of licence conditions  
#27.  Suspension of licence  
#28.  Consequences of suspension of licence  
#29.  Withdrawal of licence  
 
CHAPTER 5  
GOVERNANCE  
 
Part 1  
Insurers and insurance groups  
 
#30.  Governance framework  
#31.  Failure to maintain governance framework  
#32.  Auditor  
#33.  Audit committee  
 
Part 2  
Additional governance requirements for representative offices of branches of  foreign reinsurers and 
Lloyd ’s 
 
#34.  Representative office  
 
CHAPTER 6  
FINANCIAL SOUNDNESS  
 
Part 1  
Insurers and insurance groups  
 
#35.  Application of Part  Page 4 of 148  
 
#36.  Maintenance  of financially sound condition  
#37.  Capital add -on 
#38.  Capital and securities  
#39.  Failure to maintain financially sound condition  
 
Part 2  
Security requirements for branches of foreign reinsurers and Lloyd ’s 
 
#40.  Security to be held in trust  
#41.  Trust and trustees  
#42.  Failure to provide or maintain security  
 
CHAPTER 7  
REPORTING AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURES  
 
#43.  Information concerning beneficial interests  
#44.  Information for supervisory purposes  
#45.  Annual disclosures  
#46.  Annual financial statements and a ccounting requirements  
#47.  Auditing requirements  
#48.  Additional information relating to foreign reinsurers, Lloyd ’s underwriters or  Lloyd ’s 
#49.  Additional matters relating to Chapter  
 
CHAPTER 8  
TRANSFERS OF BUSINESS AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS  
 
#50.  Transfer, fundamental transaction or change of institutional form  
#51.  Acquisitions or disposals  
 
CHAPTER 9  
RESOLUTION  
#52.  Application of Chapter  
 
Part 1  
Statutory management  
 
#53.  Appointment of statutory manager  
 
Part 2  
Curatorship  
 
#54.  Appointment  of curator  Page 5 of 148  
 
 
Prepared by:   
Part 3  
Business rescue  
 
#55.  Application of Companies Act to business rescue of insurers and controlling  companies  
#56.  Business rescue applications and resolutions  
 
Part 4  
Winding -up 
 
#57.  Application of Companies Act to winding -up of insurer s and controlling  companies  
#58.  Winding -up applications and resolutions  
#59.  Winding -up of trusts referred to in section 41  
 
CHAPTER 10  
ADMINISTRATION OF ACT  
 
Part 1  
Applications and notifications  
 
#60.  Applications  
#61.  Notifications  
 
Part 2  
Powers and f unctions of Prudential Authority  
 
#62.  General powers, duties and functions of Prudential Authority  
#63.  Prudential Standards  
#64.  Publication by Prudential Authority  
#65.  Determination of another jurisdiction as equivalent  
#66.  Exemptions  
#67.  Unlicensed insurance business  
#68.  Penalties for non -submission or late submission  
#69.  Offences  
 
CHAPTER 11  
GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 
#70.  Regulations relating to certain classes of insurance business set out in  Schedule 2  
#71.  Special exemption of certain insurers  
#72.  Consequential amendments and transitional arrangements  
#73.  Short title and commencement  Page 6 of 148  
 
 
Prepared by:  SCHEDULE 1 : LAWS AMENDED  
SCHEDULE 2 : CLASSES AND SUB -CLASSES  
TABLE 1 :  CLASSES AND SUB -CLASSES OF INSURANCE BUSINESS  - LIFE INSURANCE  
TABLE 2 :  CLASSES AND SUB -CLASSES O F INSURANCE BUSINESS  - NON -LIFE INSURANCE  
SCHEDULE 3 : TRANSITIONAL  ARRANGEMENTS  
1.  Definitions and interpretation  
2.  Repeal of matters prescribed under previous Act  
3.  Pending matters  
4.  Preservation and continuation of court proceedings and orders  
5.  Continued investigation and enforcement of previous Act  
6.  Continuation of previously registered insurers  
7.  Maintenance of financial soundness  
8.  Reporting  
9.  Key persons and significant owners other than representatives, deputy  representatives of Ll oyd ’s and 
trustees of Lloyd ’s trust  
10.  Conducting of business other than insurance business inside Republic and  conducting of any other 
business outside Republic  
11.  Lloyd ’s 
12.  Insurance groups  
13.  Delays and exemptions  
 
CHAPTER 1  
INTERPRETATION AND OBJECTIVE OF ACT  
#\ 
1. Definitions  
 
(1)  In this Act, unless the context indicates otherwise — 
 
“accident “ means an external, violent, unexpected and visible event;  
 
“ancillary own funds ” consists of items, other than basic own funds, that may be  called up by  the 
insurer or controlling company, as the case may be, to absorb  losses, excluding items that have been 
called up or paid;  
 
“associate ” has the meaning set out in the International Financial Reporting  Standards issued by the 
International Accounting Stan dards Board or a successor  body;  
 
“Auditing Profession Act ” means the Auditing Profession Act, 2005 (Act No. 26  of 2005);  
 
“auditor ” means an auditor registered in terms of the Auditing Profession Act;  
 
“basic own funds ” consists of —  
(a) the excess of ass ets over liabilities (including technical provisions that  constitute the liability of 
the insurer arising from insurance obligations,  calculated in the prescribed manner ) valued in 
accordance with prescribed  requirements, adjusted in accordance with prescr ibed requirements; 
and  
 
(b) subordinated liabilities;  
 
“board of directors ” means — 
 
(a) the board of directors of a company registered under the Companies Act;  
 
(b) the board of directors of a co -operative registered under the Co -operatives  Act; or  
 
(c) the governing body of a person other than a company or co -operative;  
 
“branch of a foreign reinsurer ” means an operating entity of a foreign reinsurer  that is not a legal entity 
separate from the foreign reinsurer;  
 
“captive insurer ” means an insurer that on ly insures first party risks;  
 
“cell captive insurer ” means an insurer that only conducts insurance business  through cell structures;  
 
“cell structure ” means an arrangement under which a person (cell owner) — 
 
(a) holds an equity participation in a specific  class or type of shares of an insurer,  which equity 
participation is administered and accounted for separately from  other classes or types of shares;  
 
(b) is entitled to a share of the profits and liable for a share of the losses as a result  of the equity  
participation referred to in paragraph (a), linked to profits or  losses generated by the insurance 
business referred to in paragraph (c); and  
 
(c) places or insures insurance business with the insurer referred to in paragraph  (a), which business 
is contra ctually ring -fenced from the other insurance  business of that insurer for as long as the 
insurer is not in winding -up;  
 
“commercial lines ” means non -life insurance business other than in respect of  personal lines;  
 
“Companies Act ” means the Companies Act, 2008 (Act No. 71 of 2008);  
 
“control ”, in respect of the definition of controlling company, and sections 10, 17  and 22(2), has the 
meaning defined in section 2 of the Companies Act;     
“control function ” has the meaning defined in the Financial Sector Regula tion  Act;  
 
“controlling company ” means a holding company of, or another juristic person  that controls, an 
insurance group, which is located in the Republic, designated  under Part 4 of Chapter 2 and licensed 
under Chapter 4;  
 
“Co-operatives Act ” means the C o-operatives Act, 2005 (Act No. 14 of 2005);  
 
“death event ” means the event of the life of a person or an unborn having ended;  
 
“director ” means a member of a board of directors and any alternate of such a  member;  
 
“disability event ” means any event result ing in — 
 
(a) the loss of a limb or sense organ, or the use thereof by a person; or  
 
(b) a person becoming so physically or mentally impaired, whether totally or  partially, or temporarily 
or permanently, that the person is unable to — 
 
(i) continue his or he r employment or own occupation, profession or trade;  
 
(ii) participate in any employment, occupation, profession or trade that is  reasonably suitable 
for that person given, amongst other matters, his or  her education, skills, experience or 
age; or  
 
(iii) carry on the functions required for normal activities of life;  
 
“discretionary participation features ” means insurance obligations under a life  insurance policy — 
 
(a) that may be a significant portion of the total insurance obligations under the  policy;  
 
(b) the amount or timing of which are contractually at the discretion of the  insurer; and  
 
(c) that are contractually based on — 
 
(i) in full or in part, the performance of a specified pool of policies or a  specified type of policy;  
 
(ii) realised and unreali sed investment returns on a specified pool of assets  held by the insurer; 
or 
 
(iii) the profit or loss of the insurer that issues the policy;    
“eligible own funds ” comprise the sum of basic own funds and those ancillary  own funds approved by 
the Prudential  Authority as meeting the prescribed criteria  for such funds, adjusted in accordance with 
the prescribed tiering restrictions;  
 
“encumber ” means any pledge, restriction or limitation (including any contractual  obligation that must 
be fulfilled before a con tractual right may be exercised ) that  limits access to, or the use or disposal of, 
an asset;  
 
“financial inclusion ” has the meaning defined in the Financial Sector Regulation  Act;  
 
“Financial Institutions (Protection of Funds ) Act ” means the Financial  Inst itutions (Protection of 
Funds ) Act, 2001 (Act No. 28 of 2001);  
 
“Financial Sector Code ” means the Financial Sector Code for Broad -Based  Black Economic 
Empowerment issued in terms of section 9(1 ) of the Broad -Based  Black Economic Empowerment Act, 
2003 (Act No. 53 of 2003);  
 
“Financial Sector Conduct Authority ” has the meaning defined in the Financial  Sector Regulation Act;  
 
“Financial Sector Regulation Act ” means the Financial Sector Regulation Act,  2017;  
 
“first party risks ” means — 
 
(a) in respect of a capt ive insurer, the operational risks of — 
 
(i) the group of companies of which the insurer is a part;  
 
(ii) any associate of a company that is part of the group of companies  referred to in 
subparagraph (i); or  
 
(iii) any joint arrangement that a company that is part of the group of  companies referred to in 
subparagraph (i ) participates in;  
 
(b) in respect of a cell captive insurer, the operational risks of the cell owner and  the operational risks 
of— 
 
(i) the group of companies of which the cell owner is a par t; 
 
(ii) any associate of a company that is part of the group of companies  referred to in 
subparagraph (i); or  
(iii) any joint arrangement that a company that is part of the group of  companies referred to in 
subparagraph (i ) participates in;  
 
“fit and pro per requirements ” means — 
 
(a) in relation to a key person, personal character qualities of honesty, integrity,  and competence, 
including experience, qualifications and knowledge as may  be prescribed; and  
 
(b) in relation to a significant owner, qualities o f honesty and integrity and  financial standing as may 
be prescribed;  
 
“foreign branch of an insurer ” means an operating entity of an insurer that is part  of the insurer in 
terms of its organisation and is not a legal entity separate from the  insurer, but i s established outside of 
the Republic;  
 
“foreign reinsurer ” means an institution authorised and supervised by a  regulatory authority to perform 
business similar to reinsurance business as defined  in this Act under the laws of a country other than 
the Repub lic; 
 
“governing body ” means a person or a body of persons, whether elected or not,  that manages, controls, 
formulates the policy and strategy of the insurer or  controlling company, directs its affairs or has the 
authority to exercise the powers  and perfor m the functions of the insurer or controlling company;  
 
“group of companies ” means any group of related or inter -related juristic persons,  including a group of 
companies as defined in section 1 of the Companies Act;  
 
“head of a control function ” has the me aning defined in the Financial Sector  Regulation Act, and 
includes for purposes of this Act a person so appointed by a  controlling company;  
 
“health event ” means an event relating to the health of the mind or body of a  person or an unborn, other 
than a dis ability event;  
 
“insurance business ” means life insurance business or non -life insurance  business conducted or 
regarded as being conducted in the Republic, and includes  reinsurance business;  
 
“insurance group ” means the group of entities designated by the Prudential  Authority under section 
10;  
 
“insurance obligations ” means all obligations (other than the obligations of the  policyholder), whether 
those obligations constitute an obligation to pay one or  more sums of money, render services or meet 
any other o bligations, under or  arising from insurance policies, and, in respect of life insurance policies, 
includes  any guarantees and discretionary participation features;     
“insurance policy ” means a life insurance policy or a non -life insurance policy;  
 
“insurer ” means a person licensed to conduct insurance business under this Act,  and includes, unless 
specifically otherwise provided for in this Act, Lloyd ’s, a  Lloyd ’s underwriter and a reinsurer;  
 
“inter -related ” has the meaning defined in section 1 of the Compan ies Act;  
 
“intra -group transaction ” means any arrangement or agreement in terms of  which an insurer, directly 
or indirectly, relies on another person that is part of that  insurer ’s insurance group or a related or inter -
related person of the aforementioned  person, for the fulfilment of an obligation;  
 
“joint arrangement ” has the meaning set out in the International Financial  Reporting Standards issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board or a  successor body;  
 
“juristic person ” has the meaning defi ned in the Financial Sector Regulation Act;  
 
“key person ” means — 
 
(a) a director;  
 
(b) a senior manager;  
 
(c) a head of a control function;  
 
(d) an auditor referred to in section 32;  
 
(e) a trustee of a trust referred to in section 41; and  
 
(f) a represent ative and a deputy representative of Lloyd ’s or a branch of a foreign  reinsurer referred 
to in section 34;  
 
“life event ” means the event of the life of a person — 
 
(a) having begun;  
 
(b) continuing; or  
 
(c) having continued for a period;  
 
“life insurance bu siness ” means any activity conducted with the purpose of  entering into or meeting 
insurance obligations under a life insurance policy;   
“life insurance policy ” means any arrangement under which a person, in return  for provision being 
made for the rendering  of a premium to that person, undertakes  to meet insurance obligations — 
 
(a) on the happening of a life event, health event, disability event or death event;  or 
 
(b) on or from a fixed determinable date or at the request of the policyholder, but  excludes — 
 
(i) a deposit with an institution authorised under the Banks Act, 1990 (Act  No. 94 of 1990), the 
Mutual Banks Act, 1993 (Act No. 124 of 1993), or  the Co -operative Banks Act, 2007 (Act 
No. 40 of 2007); and  
 
(ii) participatory interests in a collective inve stment scheme registered in  terms of the 
Collective Investment Schemes Control Act, 2002 (Act  No. 45 of 2002),  
 
and includes a renewal or variation of that arrangement;  
 
“life insured ” means the person to whom a death, disability, health or life event  unde r an insurance 
policy relates, which person may be or may not be the  policyholder;  
 
“Lloyd ’s” means the association of persons generally known as Lloyd ’s which is  incorporated by the 
Lloyd ’s Act of 1871 (34 Vict. c21), passed by the Parliament of  the Unite d Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland;  
 
“Lloyd ’s underwriter ” means an underwriting member or non -underwriting  member of Lloyd ’s; 
 
“microinsurance business ” means insurance business — 
 
(a) conducted in respect of any of the following classes and s ub-classes of  insurance business set 
out in Schedule 2 — 
 
(i) life insurance business, classes 1, 3, 4 or 9; and  
 
(ii) non -life insurance business, in the sub -class personal lines in — 
 
(aa ) classes 1, 2, 3, 9, 11, 14 or 17; and  
 
(bb ) class 10, but only to t he extent that the insurance obligations  directly relate to the 
classes referred to in item (aa); and  
(b) in the case of life insurance business and class 14 referred to in paragraph  (a)(ii)(aa), in respect 
of which the aggregate value of the insurance  obligations relating to each life insured under an 
insurance policy does not  exceed the maximum amounts prescribed; and  
 
(c) in the case of non -life insurance business other than class 14 referred to in  paragraph (a)(ii)(aa), 
in respect of which the aggregat e value of the insurance  obligations under an insurance policy 
does not exceed the maximum amounts  prescribed; and  
 
(d) in respect of which the aggregate value of the insurance obligations under all  insurance policies 
issued by the same insurer to the same  policyholder does  not exceed the maximum amounts 
prescribed under paragraphs (b ) and (c);  
 
“microinsurer ” means an insurer licensed to conduct only microinsurance  business;  
 
“Minister ” means the Minister of Finance;  
 
“non -life insurance business ” means an y activity conducted with the purpose of  entering into or 
meeting insurance obligations under a non -life insurance policy;  
 
“non -life insurance policy ” means any arrangement under which a person, in  return for provision being 
made for the rendering of a pr emium to that person,  undertakes to meet insurance obligations that fully 
or partially indemnifies loss on  the happening of an unplanned or uncertain event, other than — 
 
(a) a life event; or  
 
(b) a death event or disability event not resulting from an acci dent,  
 
and includes a renewal or variation of that arrangement;  
 
“official website ” means a website as defined in section 1 of the Electronic  Communications and 
Transactions Act, 2002 (Act No. 25 of 2002), of the  Prudential Authority;  
 
“operational risk ”, for the purposes of the definition of first party risks, means the  risk of incurring losses 
as a result of inadequate or failed internal processes, people  and systems, or from external events and 
excludes any risks associated with the  insurance obligations  of an insurer;  
 
“outsourcing ” means an outsourcing arrangement as defined in section 1 of the  Financial Sector 
Regulation Act;  
 
“person ” has the meaning defined in the Financial Sector Regulation Act;  
“personal lines ” means non -life insurance business wh ere the policyholder is a  natural person, acting 
otherwise than solely for the purposes of the person ’s own  business; and  
 
“policyholder ” means — 
 
(a) the person with whom or with which an insurer enters into a life insurance  policy or a non -life 
insurance policy; or  
 
(b) the successor in title of the person referred to in paragraph (a);  
 
“premium ” means any direct or indirect, or partially or fully subsidised,  consideration given or to be 
given in return for an undertaking to meet insurance  obligations;  
 
“prescribed ” means prescribed by the Prudential Authority by Prudential  Standard;  
 
“Prudential Authority ” has the meaning defined in the Financial Sector  Regulation Act;  
 
“Prudential Standard ” means a standard prescribed by the Prudential Authority  under sec tion 63;  
 
“public company ” has the meaning as defined in section 1 of the Companies Act;  
 
“Regulation ” has the meaning defined in section 1 of the Financial Sector  Regulation Act;  
 
“regulatory  action ” means the exercise of any power or function, or the tak ing of  any action, by the 
Prudential Authority under this Act or another Act of Parliament;  
 
“regulatory authority ” means — 
 
(a) an organ of state responsible for the regulation, supervision or enforcement of  any law; or  
 
(b) a body similar to an organ of s tate referred to in paragraph (a ) that is  designated in terms of the 
laws of a foreign country as being responsible for  the regulation, supervision or enforcement of 
legislation;  
 
“reinsurance business ” means — 
 
(a) insurance business conducted by an insure r with another insurer, where the  first -mentioned 
insures the risks associated with the insurance obligations of  the last -mentioned insurer; or  
 
(b) business similar to the insurance business referred to in paragraph (a)  conducted by a person 
that is autho rised by a regulatory authority to perform  business similar to insurance business 
under the laws of a country other than  the Republic, with an insurer;   
“reinsurer ” means a person licensed to conduct — 
 
(a) only reinsurance business; or  
 
(b) only reinsuranc e business and the business referred to in section 25(7)(b),  
 
in the reinsurance class and sub -classes set out in Schedule 2, and, unless  specifically provided for 
otherwise in this Act, includes a branch of a foreign  reinsurer so licensed;  
 
“related ” has the meaning as defined in section 1 of the Companies Act;  
 
“rider  benefit ” means an additional insurance obligation under a life insurance  policy or a non -life 
insurance policy, which obligation is ancillary to the primary  insurance obligations assumed und er that 
policy;  
 
“scheme ”, for the purposes of sections 29 and 52, means a compliance scheme  referred to in section 
31, a recapitalisation scheme referred to in section 39 or a  recovery scheme referred to in section 42;  
 
“securities ” has the meaning as def ined in section 1(1 ) of the Financial Markets  Act, 2012 (Act No. 19 
of 2012);  
 
“senior  manager ” means — 
 
(a) the chief executive officer or the person who is in charge of an insurer or a  controlling company; 
or 
 
(b) a person, other than a director or a head  of a control function — 
 
(i) who makes or participates in making decisions that — 
 
(aa ) affect the whole or a substantial part of the business of an insurer or  a controlling 
company; or  
 
(bb ) have the capacity to significantly affect the financial standing of an  insurer or a 
controlling company; or  
 
(ii) who oversees the enforcement of policies and the implementation of  strategies approved, 
or adopted, by the board of directors,  
 
and “senior management ” has a corresponding meaning;  
“significant  owner ” has t he meaning as defined in section 1 of the Financial  Sector Regulation Act;  
 
“state -owned insurer ” means a state -owned company that conducts insurance  business and is a public 
entity subject to the Public Finance Management Act, 1999  (Act No. 1 of 1999);  
 
“strategy ”, for the purposes of sections 29 and 52, means a recapitalisation  strategy referred to in 
section 39;  
 
“third party risks ” means, in respect of a cell captive insurer, risks other than first  party risks;  
 
“this Act ” includes any Prudential Standa rd or Regulation prescribed or made in  terms of this Act;  
 
“transformation of the insurance sector ” means transformation as envisaged by  the Financial Sector 
Code for Broad -Based Black Economic Empowerment issued  in terms of section 9(1 ) of the Broad -
Based  Black Economic Empowerment Act,  2003 (Act No. 53 of 2003);  
 
“Tribunal ” has the meaning as defined in the Financial Sector Regulation Act; and  
 
“winding -up” has the meaning as defined in the Financial Sector Regulation Act.  
 
(2) In this Act, unless the con text indicates otherwise, a word or expression derived  from, or that is another 
grammatical form of, a word or expression defined in this Act has  a corresponding meaning.
#\  

#\
2. General interpretation of Act  
 
(1) This Act must be interpreted and applied in a manner that — 
 
(a) gives effect to the objective of this Act set out in section 3; and  
 
(b) facilitates compliance with the principles referred to in section 4.  
 
(2) When interpreting, applying or complying with this Act, a court, the Prudential  Authority o r any other 
person may, to the extent practicable and with due consideration  to the South African context, consider 
relevant international standards relating to  insurance regulation and supervision.  
 
(3)  
(a) If there is an inconsistency between any provis ion of this Act, other than a  Prudential Standard or 
Regulation made under this Act, and a provision of any other  legislation that — 
 
(i) provides for the regulation of insurance business; or  
 
(ii) affects or impedes the appropriate operation or implementat ion of a provision of  this Act,   
the provision of this Act prevails, unless that other legislation by explicit reference, and  not merely 
by reference to other legislation in general, provides that the other legislation  applies in the event 
of a conflict.  
 
(b) Subject to paragraph (a), this Act applies concurrently with and in addition to the  Companies Act 
and the Co -operatives Act unless specifically provided for otherwise in  this Act.  
 
(c) Paragraph (a ) does not apply — 
 
(i) to the Financial Sector Regulati on Act; and  
 
(ii) to the Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 (Act No. 38 of 2001).  
 
(4) Despite any other law, if other legislation confers a power on or imposes a duty  upon another organ of 
state — 
 
(a) in respect of a matter regulated under this Act o r the regulation of insurance  business; or  
 
(b) that affects or impacts on the appropriate exercise of powers and the  performance of duties under 
this Act by the Prudential Authority,  
 
that power or duty must be exercised or performed in consultation with the Prudential  Authority, and any 
decision taken in accordance with that power or duty must be taken  with the concurrence of the 
Prudential Authority, irrespective of when that other  legislation was enacted, unless that other legislation 
by explicit refere nce, and not  merely by reference to other legislation in general, provides that such 
concurrence is not  required.  
 
(5) Any reference to “company ”, “holding company ”, ‘‘non -profit company ”, “profit company ”, “public 
company ”, “state -owned company ” or “subsi diary ” means  a reference to a company, holding company, 
non -profit company, profit company, public  company, state -owned company or subsidiary, as the case 
may be, as defined in the  Companies Act.  
 
(6)  
(a) The Companies Act applies to any insurer (other th an a branch of a foreign  reinsurer, Lloyd ’s 
underwriter or Lloyd ’s) or a controlling company that is not a public  company, to the extent that 
the Companies Act — 
 
(i) can apply to it; and  
 
(ii) applies to a public company.  
(b) Paragraph (a ) must not be int erpreted as requiring an insurer or a controlling  company that is not 
a public company to submit information to the Commission or  Commissioner (as defined in the 
Companies Act ) that a public company is required to  submit to the Commission or Commissioner 
under the Companies Act.   
 
(7) If, in terms of this Act, information or a document is required to be publicly  available, published, 
disclosed, produced or provided, it is sufficient if — 
 
(a) an electronic original or a reproduction thereof is published, dis closed,  produced or provided by 
electronic communication in a manner and form such  that the information or document can 
conveniently be printed by the recipient  within a reasonable time and at a reasonable cost; or  
 
(b) a notice of the availability of that  information or document, summarising its  content and satisfying 
any prescribed requirements, is delivered to each  intended recipient thereof, together with 
instructions for receiving the  complete information or document.
#\  
 
#\
3. Objective of Act  
 
The objectiv e of this Act is to, in a manner consistent with the Constitution of the  Republic of South 
Africa, 1996, promote the maintenance of a fair, safe and stable  insurance market for the benefit and 
protection of policyholders, by establishing a legal  framework for the prudential regulation and 
supervision of insurers and insurance  groups that — 
 
(a) facilitates the monitoring and the preservation of the safety and soundness of  insurers;  
 
(b) enhances the protection of policyholders and potential policyholders;  
 
(c) increases access to insurance for all South Africans;  
 
(d) promotes broad -based transformation of the insurance sector; and  
 
(e) contributes to the stability of the financial system in general.
#\ 
 
CHAPTER 2  
CONDUCTING INSURANCE BUSINESS AND INSURANCE  GROU P BUSINESS  
 
Part 1  
General principles for conducting insurance business or insurance  group business  

#\ 
4. Principles  
An insurer and a controlling company must, at all times — 
(a) conduct its business with integrity;  
 
(b) conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence;  
 
(c) act in a prudent manner;  
 
(d) organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively; and  
 
(e) deal with the Prudential Authority in an open and cooperative way.
#\  
 
Part 2  
Insurance business and other business of insurers  
#\ 
5. Insurance business and limitations on other business  
 
(1) No person may conduct insurance business in the Republic unless that person  is licensed under this 
Act.  
 
(2) A person is regarded as conducting insurance business in the Republic if — 
 
(a) the person conducts business similar to insurance business outside the  Republic; and  
 
(b) that person or another person, in relation to the business referred to under  paragraph (a), directly 
or indirectly acts in the Republic on behalf of the  first -mentioned person, including, but not limited 
to, by rendering a financial  service within the meaning of the Financial Advisory and Intermediary  
Services Act, 2002 (Act No. 37 of 2002), in respect of that business.  
 
(3) A person to whom an insurer has outsourced a function o r activity is not regarded  as conducting 
insurance business.  
 
(4) An insurer may not, without the approval of the Prudential Authority, conduct any  business other than 
insurance business in the Republic, including any insurance business  performed on behalf  of another 
person.  
 
(5) An insurer (other than a reinsurer, a branch of a foreign reinsurer, Lloyd ’s underwriter or Lloyd ’s) may 
not, without the approval of the Prudential Authority,  conduct any business, including business similar 
to insurance business,  outside the  Republic.  
 
(6) The Prudential Authority must only grant an approval referred to under  subsection (4 ) or (5 ) if the 
Prudential Authority is satisfied that such business will not — 
 
(a) impede or be likely to impede the financial soundness of the  insurer;   
(b) negatively impact on the interests of policyholders; or  
 
(c) introduce risks that cannot, to the satisfaction of the Prudential Authority, be  appropriately 
mitigated.  
 
(7)  
(a) Despite any approval under subsection (4 ) or (5), the Prudential  Authority may  direct an insurer 
to cease conducting business referred to in subsection (4 ) or (5), if the  Prudential Authority 
reasonably believes that the business may — 
 
(i) impede or is likely to impede the financial soundness of the insurer; or  
 
(ii) introduce a risk or risks that cannot be appropriately mitigated.  
 
(b) An insurer who is directed under paragraph (a ) must, within the period agreed  with the Prudential 
Authority, which period must not exceed three months after a  directive referred to in pa ragraph 
(a) is issued, submit to the Prudential Authority for  approval a plan to reorganise its business.  
 
(c) An insurer whose plan was approved under paragraph (b ) must submit a monthly  progress report 
to the Prudential Authority that sets out the measur es taken and the  progress made with 
implementing the plan.  
 
(d) The Prudential Authority may restrict or prohibit certain activities or transactions  of the insurer 
until the plan is implemented.  
 
(8)  
(a) The Prudential Authority may prescribe that, for th e purposes of this Act — 
 
(i) certain types, kinds or categories of insurance business are, subject to any  requirements 
prescribed, excluded from the application of this Act; or  
 
(ii) certain types, kinds or categories of business constitute insurance busin ess to  which this 
Act applies.  
 
(b) The Prudential Authority, when making a Prudential Standard under paragraph  (a), must have 
regard to — 
 
(i) any existing Act of Parliament that regulates that business;  
 
(ii) the nature, size, complexity or type of that b usiness;  
(iii) the persons that conduct that business;  
 
(iv) the nature or type of any insurance obligations;  
 
(v) the threshold below which it is not possible for a person to effectively retain and  manage 
insurance risk.  
 
(9) No person may, without the a pproval of the Prudential Authority, apply to that  person ’s business or 
undertaking a name or description which includes the word  “assure ”, “insure ” or “underwrite ”, or any 
derivative thereof, unless that person is  licensed as an insurer under this Act.
#\  
 
Part 3  
Branches of foreign reinsurers and Lloyd ’s underwriters

#\ 
6. Conducting of insurance business by branches of foreign reinsurers and Lloyd ’s underwriters  
 
(1) A foreign reinsurer may conduct insurance business in the Republic through a  branch of that f oreign 
reinsurer if the foreign reinsurer — 
 
(a) is granted a licence under Chapter 4;  
 
(b) establishes a representative office in the Republic in accordance with  Chapter 5; and  
 
(c) establishes a trust in the Republic in accordance with Chapter 6.  
 
(2) A L loyd ’s underwriter may conduct insurance business in the Republic if  Lloyd ’s— 
 
(a) establishes a representative office in the Republic in accordance with  Chapter 5; and  
 
(b) establishes a trust in the Republic in accordance with Chapter 6.  
 
(3) All the sec tions of this Act apply to a branch of a foreign reinsurer, a Lloyd ’s underwriter and Lloyd ’s, 
unless specifically provided for otherwise in this Act.
#\  
 
#\
7. Claims against branches of foreign reinsurers or Lloyd ’s underwriters  
 
(1)  
(a) Any claim against a b ranch of a foreign reinsurer or a Lloyd ’s underwriter  in respect of an 
insurance policy relating to the insurance business for which it is  licensed under this Act must be 
recognised by any competent court in the Republic.  
(b) In any action or other procee dings instituted under subsection (1), the  representative referred to 
in section 34 may be cited as a nominal defendant or  respondent, and the summons or application 
commencing the proceedings may be  served on him or her.  
 
(c) The representative may instit ute and conduct any proceedings in a competent  court in the 
Republic as a nominal plaintiff or an applicant on behalf of the branch of a  foreign reinsurer or a 
Lloyd ’s underwriter.  
 
(2) The trust referred to in section 41 must — 
 
(a) meet the insurance obli gations under an insurance policy referred to in  subsection (1), if a branch 
of a foreign reinsurer or a Lloyd ’s underwriter fails  to meet any insurance obligations under that 
insurance policy after — 
 
(i) a court has given a final judgment in respect of a claim; or  
 
(ii) the Prudential Authority has directed the payment of that claim,  
 
and any reconsideration or review proceedings in relation thereto have been  completed or not 
been instituted within the period allowed therefor; or  
 
(b) pay a penalty imposed  under this Act or under the Financial Sector Regulation  Act, if a branch of 
a foreign reinsurer, Lloyd ’s or a Lloyd ’s underwriter fails  to pay that penalty within the time allowed 
for payment, and any  reconsideration or review proceedings in relation ther eto have not been  
completed or have not been instituted within the period allowed therefor.
#\  
 

Part 4  
Insurance groups  
#\
8. Application of Part  
 
This Part does not apply to branches of foreign reinsurers, Lloyd ’s underwriters or  Lloyd ’s. 
#\

#\
9. Notification by i nsurer on becoming part of group of companies  
 
An insurer must, within 30 days of becoming part of a group of companies, notify  the Prudential Authority 
thereof. 
#\ 

#\
10.  Designation of insurance group and licensing of controlling company  
 
(1)(a) The Prudent ial Authority may, for the purpose of facilitating the prudential  supervision of insurers, 
designate as an insurance group — 
 
(i) an insurer;  
 
(ii) any juristic person that is part of the group of companies of which the insurer is  a part; and  
 
(iii) any ass ociate, or related or inter -related person of any juristic person that is part  of the 
group of companies referred to in subparagraph (ii).  
 
(b) An insurance group designated in terms of paragraph (a ) need not include all the  juristic persons, 
associates, o r related and inter -related persons referred to in paragraph  (a).  
 
(2) The Prudential Authority must as part of designating an insurance group also  designate the holding 
company or juristic person that must apply for a licence as a  controlling company of t hat insurance group 
under Chapter 4.  
 
(3) The holding company of, or another juristic person that controls, an insurance  group designated under 
subsection (1 ) and which is located in the Republic must, within  30 days of the designation, apply to be 
license d as a controlling company of that  insurance group under Chapter 4.  
 
(4) The Prudential Authority must keep designations in terms of subsection (1 ) under  review, including if 
the Prudential Authority becomes aware of a change in the risk  profile of the des ignated insurance 
group.  
 
(5) The Prudential Authority may amend or revoke a designation in terms of  subsection (1 ) if the Prudential 
Authority becomes aware of a change in the risk profile  of any juristic person that is part of the 
designated insurance gr oup.  
 
(6) The Prudential Authority must publish a notice on the official website of each  designation and each 
amendment and revocation of a designation under subsection (1),  (2) or (5).  
#\

#\ 
11.  Responsibility of board of directors of controlling company  
 
(1) The board of directors of a controlling company is responsible for meeting the  requirements imposed on 
a controlling company and an insurance group under this Act.  
 
(2) The board of directors of a controlling company must, as soon as reasonably  possible, n otify the 
Prudential Authority of any change in the structure or material  change in the risk profile of the insurance 
group that may impact on the scope of the  insurance group designated under section 10. 
#\
 
#\ 
12.  Transparent insurance group structure     
(1) The  Prudential Authority may, for the purpose of facilitating the prudential  supervision of the insurance 
group or any insurer that is part of the insurance group,  direct a controlling company to amend the 
structure of the insurance group, in  accordance with a plan submitted to and approved by the Prudential 
Authority, within a  period agreed by the Prudential Authority.  
 
(2)  
(a) The controlling company whose restructuring plan was approved as  contemplated in subsection 
(1) must submit a monthly progress repor t to the Prudential  Authority that sets out the measures 
taken and the progress made with implementing the  restructuring plan.  
 
(b) The Prudential Authority may restrict or prohibit certain activities or transactions  of the insurance 
group until the restru cturing plan is implemented.  
 
(3) The Prudential Authority may take such regulatory action that the Prudential  Authority determines is 
necessary and appropriate if — 
 
(a) the Prudential Authority does not approve the restructuring plan; or  
 
(b) the controll ing company — 
 
(i) fails to submit a restructuring plan;  
 
(ii) fails to report as provided for under subsection (2)(a); or  
 
(iii) fails to implement an approved restructuring plan.  
 
(4)  
(a) Any juristic person that is part of an insurance group, including any insurer,  must, on demand by 
the controlling company, provide any information to the controlling  company that is needed to 
enable the controlling company to comply with its obligations  in terms of this Act.  
 
(b) To give effect to paragraph (a), a contro lling company must impose binding  corporate rules on, 
or enter into a binding agreement with, every juristic person that is  part of the insurance group, 
that includes terms regarding the processing of information,  including personal information, within 
the insurance group.
#\ 
 
CHAPTER 3  
KEY PERSONS AND SIGNIFICANT OWNERS  
 
Part 1  
Fit and proper requirements  

#\  
13.  Fit and proper requirements for key persons and significant owners  
 
(1) The Prudential Authority may prescribe fit and proper requirements for key  pers ons and significant 
owners of an insurer or a controlling company.  
 
(2) Key persons and significant owners must, at all times, comply with the prescribed  fit and proper 
requirements.
#\  
 
Part 2  
Appointment and termination of key persons 
 
#\ 
14.  Approval of appoi ntment of certain key persons  
 
(1) The appointment of any of the following key persons must be approved by the  Prudential Authority, and 
takes effect only if the Prudential Authority approves the  appointment:  
 
(a) In the case of an insurer (other than a br anch of a foreign reinsurer, a Lloyd ’s underwriter or 
Lloyd ’s) or a controlling company, a director and an auditor  referred to in section 32; and  
 
(b) in the case of a branch of a foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s— 
 
(i) an auditor referred to in section 32;  
 
(ii) a representative and a deputy representative of Lloyd ’s or a branch of a  foreign reinsurer 
referred to in section 34; and  
 
(iii) a trustee of a trust referred to in section 41.  
 
(2)  
(a) In the case of an auditor, subsection (1 ) does not apply in respec t of the  reappointment of an 
auditor that does not involve a break in the continuity of the  appointment.  
 
(b) Where the appointed auditor is a firm defined under the Auditing Profession Act,  both the firm and 
the partner that takes responsibility for compl iance with section 32  must be approved by the 
Prudential Authority.  
 
(c) The Prudential Authority ’s approval of a firm as defined under the Auditing  Profession Act does 
not lapse by reason of a change in the membership of the firm if at  least half of the m embers of 
the firm, after the change, were members when the  appointment of the firm was approved by the 
Prudential Authority, and the partner that  takes responsibility for compliance with section 32 is not 
affected by this change.
#\

#\  
15.  Notification of appo intment and change in circumstances of certain key persons  
 
(1) An insurer (other than a branch of a foreign reinsurer, a Lloyd ’s underwriter or  Lloyd ’s) and a controlling 
company must, within 30 days, notify the Prudential  Authority of the appointment of — 
 
(a) a senior manager; or  
 
(b) a head of a control function.  
 
(2) The representative of a branch of a foreign reinsurer and Lloyd ’s must, within 30  days, notify the 
Prudential Authority of the appointment of — 
 
(a) a senior manager; or  
 
(b) a head of a con trol function.  
 
(3) An insurer, a controlling company, and a representative of a branch of a foreign  reinsurer and Lloyd ’s 
must, within 30 days of becoming aware, notify the Prudential  Authority of a change in circumstances 
that may adversely affect the fi t and proper status  of a key person. 
#\ 
 
#\
16.  Termination of appointment of key persons  
 
(1) An insurer (other than a branch of a foreign reinsurer, a Lloyd ’s underwriter or  Lloyd ’s) and a controlling 
company must notify the Prudential Authority of the  termina tion of the appointment of a key person, 
within 30 days of such termination.  
 
(2) The representative of a branch of a foreign reinsurer and Lloyd ’s must notify the  Prudential Authority of 
the termination of the appointment of a key person referred to in  paragraphs (b ) to (e ) of the definition 
of “key person ”, within 30 days of such  termination.  
 
(3) A branch of a foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s must notify the Prudential Authority of  the termination of the 
appointment of a representative or a deputy representa tive of that  branch of a foreign reinsurer or 
Lloyd ’s, within 30 days of such termination.  
 
(4)  
(a) Any key person, other than an auditor, of an insurer or a controlling company  who resigns or 
whose appointment has been terminated, must at the request of the Prudential Authority, notify 
the Prudential Authority in writing of any matter relating to  the affairs of that insurer or controlling 
company of which the key person became aware  in the performance of that key person ’s role, 
responsibilities, duties or  functions, and  which may prejudice the ability of the insurer or controlling 
company to comply with  this Act.   
(b) No information furnished by a key person under paragraph (a ) may be used by the  Prudential 
Authority in any subsequent criminal proceedings against such a key person.
#\  
 
Part 3  
Changes in control of insurer or controlling company and nominees  

#\
17.  Changes in control of insurer or controlling company  
 
(1)  
(a) This section and the provisions of the Financial Sector Regulation Act  relating to sign ificant 
owners do not apply to branches of foreign reinsurers, Lloyd ’s underwriters or Lloyd ’s. 
 
(b) The provisions of the Financial Sector Regulation Act relating to significant  owners apply, with the 
necessary changes, to controlling companies.  
 
(c) This  section applies in addition to the Financial Sector Regulation Act.  
 
(2) An insurer or a controlling company must, within 30 days of becoming aware,  notify the Prudential 
Authority of any arrangement referred to in the provisions of the  Financial Sector R egulation Act relating 
to significant owners.  
 
(3) The Prudential Authority may only approve an arrangement referred to in the  provisions of the Financial 
Sector Regulation Act relating to significant owners if the  Prudential Authority is satisfied, in add ition to 
the matters specified in the Financial  Sector Regulation Act, that the likely influence of the proposed 
significant owner, will  be reasonably likely to result in, or will continue to result in — 
 
(a) key persons of the insurer or controlling compan y meeting the fit and proper  requirements 
prescribed under this Act; and  
 
(b) any other licensing requirements and licensing conditions being met.  
 
(4) If the Prudential Authority is reasonably satisfied that the retention of a particular  interest by a par ticular 
significant owner will be prejudicial to the insurer or controlling  company, or to the policyholders of the 
insurer, the Prudential Authority may, in addition  to any other action that the Prudential Authority may 
take in terms of this Act, after  consultation with the insurer or controlling company and the particular 
significant owner  direct that insurer, controlling company or significant owner to — 
 
(a) prepare and submit to the Prudential Authority a plan that is satisfactory to the  Prudential 
Auth ority, under which the significant owner will, within a period  that is acceptable to the 
Prudential Authority — 
(i) limit, with immediate effect, the voting rights that may be exercised by  that owner by virtue 
of the proportion of the voting rights or the interest  held;  
 
(ii) reduce the proportion of the voting rights or the interest held by that  owner in the insurer or 
controlling company to a percentage specified; or  
 
(iii) cease to be a significant owner of the insurer or controlling company; and  
 
(b) on the Prudential Authority ’s approval of the plan, implement the plan.  
 
(5)  
(a) Despite any other law, no person may, in respect of an interest in an insurer or  a controlling 
company, or a related person of an insurer or a controlling company, issued  to th at person or 
registered in that person ’s name contrary to this Act — 
 
(i) either personally or by proxy granted to another person, cast a vote attached to  that 
interest; or  
 
(ii) receive a dividend or any other money in respect of that interest.  
 
(b) A reso lution passed by an insurer or a controlling company contrary to  paragraph (a)(i), or a 
payment referred to in paragraph (a)(ii), is void.  
 
(6)  
(a) Despite anything to the contrary in the Competition Act, 1998 (Act No. 89 of  1998), the 
Competition Commiss ion may not make a decision in terms of section  13(5)(b ) or 14(1)(b ) of the 
Competition Act, and the Competition Tribunal may not  make an order in terms of section 16(2 ) 
of the Competition Act, 1998, if — 
 
(i) the merger constitutes an acquisition of shares  for which approval is required in  terms of 
this section; and  
 
(ii) the Prudential Authority has, in the prescribed manner, issued a notice to the  Commissioner 
specifying the names of the parties to the merger and certifying  that the merger is a merger 
con templated in subparagraph (i), and it is in the  public interest that the merger is subject 
to the Financial Sector Regulation Act  only.  
 
(b) Sections 13(6 ) and 14(2 ) of the Competition Act, 1998, do not apply to a merger  in respect of 
which the Prudential Authority has issued a certificate contemplated in  paragraph (a)(ii).  
 
(c) For the purposes of paragraphs (a ) and (b), ‘merger ’ means a merger as defined in  section 12 of 
the Competition Act, 1998.
#\

#\   
18.  Registration of shares in name of nominee  
 
(1) An ins urer that is a profit company registered under the Companies Act or a  controlling company may 
not, without the approval of the Prudential Authority — 
 
(a) allot or issue any of its shares to, or register any of its shares in the name of,  a person other than  
the intended holder of a beneficial interest;  
 
(b) register a transfer of any of its shares to a person other than the intended holder  of a beneficial 
interest.  
 
(2) The Prudential Authority may prescribe the circumstances in which approval  under subsecti on (1 ) is not 
required.
#\ 
 
Part 4  
Key persons or significant owners not fit and proper 
 
#\
19.  Key person or significant owner not fit and proper or no longer fit and proper  
 
(1) The Prudential Authority may, if the Prudential Authority reasonably believes  that  a key person does not 
comply or no longer complies with the fit and proper  requirements, in addition to any other action that 
the Prudential Authority may take  under this Act, direct the insurer or controlling company to make 
arrangements to the  satisfact ion of the Prudential Authority to address the non -compliance, which  
arrangements may include — 
 
(a) providing additional education or training to that key person;  
 
(b) utilising external resources to support that key person;  
 
(c) outsourcing the functions and duties of that key person; or  
 
(d) suspending or removing a person from the appointment as a key person.  
 
(2) If an insurer fails to make arrangements contemplated in subsection (1 ) to address  the non -compliance 
of a key person with the fit and proper requirements prescribed, the  Prudential Authority, in addition to 
any other action that the Prudential Authority may  take under this Act, may — 
 
(a) impose additional reporting requirements on the insurer or controlling  company; or  
 
(b) vary the licensing c onditions of the insurer or controlling company; or  
(c) suspend or withdraw the licence of the insurer or controlling company.  
 
(3) The Prudential Authority may, if the Prudential Authority reasonably believes that  a significant owner 
does not meet or no longer meets the fit and proper requirements, in  addition to any other action that 
the Prudential Authority may take, take any of the  actions referred to in section 17(4).
#\
  
#\ 
20.  Assessing if key person or significant owner is fit and proper  
 
The Prudential Authority, in assessing if a key person or significant owner is fit  and proper or continues 
to be fit and proper, may request the verification of information,  or may verify information at the 
Prudential Authority ’s disposal by making enquiries to  any organ  of state, credit bureau or other source 
of relevant information concerning that  key person or significant owner.
#\  
 
CHAPTER 4  
LICENSING, SUSPENSION AND WITHDRAWAL OF LICENCE 
 
#\ 
21.  Application of Chapter  
 
Sections 22 and 23 do not apply to a Lloyd ’s underwrit er or Lloyd ’s.
#\
 
#\ 
22.  Requirements for licence  
 
(1) In order to qualify for licensing as an insurer — 
 
(a) a person — 
 
(i) in the case of a person that intends to conduct microinsurance business  only, must be a 
profit company or a non -profit company registered  under  the Companies Act, or a co -
operative registered under the Co -operatives  Act;  
 
(ii) in the case of a person that intends to conduct reinsurance business only,  must be a public 
company or state -owned company registered under the  Companies Act, a co -operative 
registered under the Co -operatives Act or  a branch of a foreign reinsurer; and  
 
 (iii) in any other case, subject to section 70, must be a public company or  state -owned company 
registered under the Companies Act, or a  co-operative registered under the Co -operatives 
Act;  
 
(b) a person ’s primary business activity must be the conducting of insurance  business and operations 
arising directly therefrom;  
 
(c) a person must demonstrate that —    
(i) its key persons and significant owners meet the prescribed fi t and proper  requirements;  
 
(ii) it has a sound business plan;  
 
(iii) it has a plan to meet its stated commitments in terms of transformation of  the insurance 
sector, including meeting the targets envisaged by the  Financial Sector Code;  
 
(iv) it has adequa te operational management capabilities to conduct the  classes and sub -
classes of insurance business set out in Schedule 2 that it  wishes to conduct;  
 
(v) if it is a branch of a foreign reinsurer and the requirements imposed by  the foreign 
jurisdiction in w hich the institution is authorised and  supervised have not been determined 
as equivalent to this Act under  section 65, the laws of the country under which the institution 
is authorised and supervised establish a regulatory framework equivalent to  that 
esta blished by this Act;  
 
(vi) if it is part of an insurance group, that its controlling company will be  able to meet the 
requirements for insurance groups as set out in this Act;  and  
 
(vii) it will be able to comply with the governance framework requirements,  financial soundness 
requirements and reporting and public disclosure  requirements of this Act;  
 
(d) that person ’s licensing must not be contrary to the interests of prospective  policyholders or the 
public interest; and  
 
(e) in the case of a state -owned co mpany, an Act of Parliament authorises that  company to conduct 
insurance business and the Minister has approved that the  company may apply for a licence 
under this Act.  
 
(2) In order to qualify for licensing as a controlling company, a holding company of,  or another juristic person 
that controls, an insurance group must demonstrate that — 
 
(a) its key persons and significant owners meet the prescribed fit and proper  requirements;  
 
(b) it has a sound business plan; and  
 
(c) it will be able to comply with the governance framework, financial soundness,  reporting and public 
disclosure requirements of this Act.  
 
(3) The Prudential Authority, prior to licensing, may require a person to change its  proposed name (or a 
translation, shortened form or derivative thereof ), if the proposed  name is unacceptable because it —    
(a) is identical to that of another insurer or controlling company;  
 
(b) so closely resembles that of another insurer or controlling company that the  one is likely to be 
mistaken for the other;  
 
(c) is identical to or so closely resembles that under which another insurer or  controlling company 
was previously licensed, and reasonable grounds exist  for objection to its use; or  
 
(d) is misleading or undesirable. 
#\ 
 
#\
23.  Licensing  
 
(1) An application for a licen ce must be made to the Prudential Authority.  
 
(2) The Prudential Authority must, in the case of a branch of a foreign reinsurer or a  subsidiary of a foreign 
insurer, only grant or refuse an application after consultation with  the regulatory authority that regulates 
the foreign reinsurer.  
 
(3)  
(a) The Prudential Authority must grant or refuse an application within 120 days  of the date on which 
the application was submitted to the Prudential Authority, or such  longer period agreed between 
the Prudential Auth ority and the applicant.  
 
(b) If the Prudential Authority requested additional information in terms of section  60(4)(a)(i), then the 
period between the date on which the additional information was  requested and when the 
information was provided to the Prud ential Authority is not  considered when determining the 120 
days referred to in paragraph (a).  
 
(4)  
(a) The Prudential Authority must, on granting an application, issue a licence and  publish a notice of 
the licensing on the official website.  
 
(b) The lice nce of an insurer must specify — 
 
(i) the full name of the insurer and any translation, shortened form or derivative of  the name 
of the insurer that may be used in conducting business;  
 
(ii) the type of insurance business for which the insurer is licensed;  
 
(iii) the classes and sub -classes of insurance business that the insurer may conduct;  and  
(iv) any conditions referred to in section 25(8 ) subject to which the licence is  granted.  
 
(c) The licence of a controlling company must specify — 
 
(i) the full name  of the controlling company and any translation, shortened form or  derivative 
of the name of the controlling company that may be used in  conducting business; and  
 
(ii) any conditions referred to in section 25(9 ) subject to which the licence is  granted.  
 
(5) An insurer and controlling company must ensure that a reference to the fact that  such a licence is held 
is contained in all business documentation and advertisements and  other marketing material.  
 
(6) An insurer or controlling company may not change its name or any translation,  shortened form or 
derivative of the name of the insurer or controlling company that may  be used in conducting business 
without the approval of the Prudential Authority.  
 
(7) A licence granted under this Act cannot be transferred to  another person. 
#\ 
 
#\
24.  Lloyd ’s underwriters and Lloyd ’s licensed  
 
(1) Lloyd ’s underwriters and Lloyd ’s, subject to subsection (2), are licensed to  conduct — 
 
(a) non -life insurance business in all the classes and sub -classes set out in Table  2 of Schedule 2,  
in respect of commercial lines; and  
 
(b) non -life insurance business in sub -class 17 set out in Table 2 of Schedule 2 in  respect of personal 
lines.  
 
(2) Lloyd ’s underwriters and Lloyd ’s may only with the approval of the Prudential  Authority conduct non -life 
insurance business in the classes and sub -classes, other than  sub -class 17, set out in Table 2 of 
Schedule 2 in respect of personal lines.  
 
(3) The Prudential Authority may impose licensing conditions similar to those  referred to in section 25(8 ) on 
a Lloyd ’s underwriter or Lloyd ’s.
#\ 
 
#\
25.  Licence conditions  
 
(1) An insurer, other than a microinsurer or a reinsurer, must be licensed to  conduct life or non -life insurance 
business, and may not be licensed to conduct both.  
 
(2) An insurer, in addition to bein g licensed to conduct life or non -life insurance  business, must be licensed 
to conduct one or more of the classes or sub -classes of  insurance business set out in Schedule 2.     
(3) An insurer that is licensed to conduct a specific class or sub -class of insur ance  business may provide 
the rider benefits as may be prescribed in respect of that class or  sub -class of insurance business.  
 
(4) An insurer licensed under this Act — 
 
(a) may only conduct insurance business in the classes or sub -classes of insurance  busi ness set out 
in Schedule 2 for which it is licensed in accordance with  subsection (2); and  
 
(b) must conduct the insurance business for which the insurer is licensed in  accordance with the 
requirements that may be prescribed in respect of each of  the class es or sub -classes of insurance 
business under this Act or any other Act  of Parliament.  
 
(5) A captive insurer may not insure third party risks.  
 
(6)  
(a) Only a cell captive insurer may conduct insurance business through cell  structures.  
 
(b) A cell captiv e insurer may not insure — 
 
(i) first party risks and third party risks in the same cell structure; or  
 
(ii) the risks associated with the insurance obligations of another insurer without the  approval 
the Prudential Authority.  
 
(7)  
(a)  A reinsurer that is  licensed to conduct both life and non -life insurance business  may not be 
licensed to conduct reinsurance business in respect of classes 6 to 8 set out  in Table 1 of 
Schedule 2.  
 
(b) A reinsurer licensed to conduct life or non -life insurance business or bo th may be  licensed to 
conduct insurance business in respect of class 10 set out in Table 2 of  Schedule 2 directly with a 
medical scheme registered under the Medical Schemes Act,  1998 (Act No. 131 of 1998).  
 
(8) The Prudential Authority, in the case of an i nsurer, may impose licensing  conditions in addition to 
subsections (1 ) to (7 ) necessary to achieve the objective of this  Act, which may include conditions — 
 
(a) relating to the insurance business arrangements, including, but not limited to,  the outsourcing  
arrangements or cell structures that the insurer may enter into;  
 
(b) relating to the persons with whom the insurer may conduct insurance  business;  
(c) relating to reinsurance arrangements;  
 
(d) limiting the scope and size of the insurance business that may be conducted to  that set out in the 
application for a licence referred to in section 23;  
 
(e) prohibiting particular terms or conditions from being included in insurance  policies entered into 
under a specific class or sub -class of business;  
 
(f) limiti ng the amount or value of the benefits that may be provided under  insurance policies entered 
into under a specific class or sub -class of business;  
 
(g) limiting the amount of the premiums that the insurer may contract to receive,  during a specific 
period, in respect of all or specific insurance policies entered  into by the insurer during that period;  
 
(h) requiring that the provisions of the Memorandum of Incorporation of an  insurer that is a company 
or the equivalent constitution, deed or founding  instrume nt of an insurer that is not a company — 
 
(i) must be suitable to enable it to carry on insurance business; and  
 
(ii) may not be amended without the approval of the Prudential Authority; or  
 
(i) that are reasonably necessary to ensure that the insurance bus iness is  conducted in a financially 
sound manner or in accordance with this Act.  
 
(9) The Prudential Authority may, in the case of a controlling company, impose  licensing conditions 
necessary to achieve the objective of this Act, which may include  conditio ns— 
 
(a) requiring the controlling company of the insurance group to limit its business  to the acquiring, 
holding and managing of another company or companies;  
 
(b) requiring that the provisions of the Memorandum of Incorporation of a  controlling company t hat is 
a company or the equivalent constitution, deed or  founding instrument of a controlling company 
that is not a company — 
 
(i) must be suitable to enable it to be the controlling company of an  insurance group; and  
 
(ii) may not be amended without the ap proval of the Prudential Authority; or  
 
(c) that are reasonably necessary to ensure that the insurance business is  conducted in a financially 
sound manner or in accordance with this Act.  
 
(10 ) The Prudential Authority may —    
(a) impose different conditions in respect of different types or kinds of insurers or  controlling 
companies, and different classes and sub -classes of insurance  business; and  
 
(b) impose conditions in a manner that seeks to facilitate the progressive or  incremental compliance 
with this Ac t by a specific insurer to promote  developmental, financial inclusion and transformation 
objectives.
#\  
 
#\
26.  Variation of licence conditions  
 
(1) The Prudential Authority may amend, delete, replace or vary any licensing  conditions or impose other 
or additiona l licensing conditions — 
 
(a) on application by an insurer or controlling company;  
 
(b) when it is in the public interest, including transformation of the insurance  sector;  
 
(c) when, in the case of an insurer, it is in the interests of the policyholders or  potential policyholders 
of the insurer;  
 
(d) when, in the case of a controlling company, it is in the interests of maintaining  the financial 
soundness of any insurer that is part of the insurance group;  
 
(e) when revoking a suspension of a licence;  
 
(f) in the circumstances referred to in section 48; or  
 
(g) in the case of an insurer, if an insurer has ceased to enter into insurance  policies relating to a 
class or sub -class of insurance business, to the extent that  its licence for that class or sub -class 
of insurance business is no longer  justified.  
 
(2) An amendment, a deletion, a replacement or a variation of any licensing condition,  or the imposition of 
other licensing conditions pursuant to subsection (1), may be made  for a specific period subject to 
certain conditions being met.  
 
(3) If a variation of licence conditions results in an insurer no longer being licensed  for a specific class or 
sub -class referred to in Schedule 2, the Prudential Authority must  direct the insurer to make 
arrangements to the s atisfaction of the Prudential Authority  to— 
 
(a) discharge its obligations under all insurance policies entered into in respect of  that class or sub -
class before the variation;  
(b) ensure the orderly resolution of that insurance business of the insurer; o r 
 
(c) transfer that insurance business to another insurer under section 50 by a  specified date.  
 
(4) The Prudential Authority, on varying, amending or imposing other licensing  conditions, must publish a 
notice thereof on the official website. 
#\ 
 
#\
27.  Suspens ion of licence  
 
(1) The Prudential Authority may suspend a licence of an insurer or controlling  company in full or in part, if 
it appears to the Prudential Authority, on the basis of  available information, that the insurer or controlling 
company — 
 
(a) no l onger meets a licence condition under which it is licensed;  
 
(b) failed to comply with any other condition imposed under this Act or the  Financial Sector Regulation 
Act;  
 
(c) contravened or failed to comply with a provision of this Act or the Financial  Sec tor Regulation Act;  
 
(d) failed to comply with any court order, notice, directive, undertaking, request,  determination, 
decision or exemption given under this Act or the Financial  Sector Regulation Act;  
 
(e) failed to make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Prudential Authority to  address the non -
compliance of a key person with the fit and proper  requirements prescribed, or a responsibility, 
function or requirement imposed  on that person under this Act;  
 
(f) failed to give effect to a decision of the F inancial Services Tribunal  established under the Financial 
Sector Regulation Act;  
 
(g) if it were then to apply for licensing under section 23, would not be able to  meet the requirements 
referred to in that section; or  
 
(h) failed to pay levies or fees pay able in respect of the licence within 60 days  after they became 
payable.  
 
(2) The Prudential Authority may, at any time, in addition to subsection (1), suspend  the licence of a branch 
of a foreign reinsurer, Lloyd ’s underwriter or Lloyd ’s in full or  in par t, if it appears to the Prudential 
Authority, on the basis of available information,  that the circumstances referred to in section 48 justify 
the suspension.  
 
(3) (a) The Prudential Authority may suspend a licence of an insurer or controlling  company unde r 
subsection (1 ) or (2), subject to any condition necessary to achieve the  objective of this Act that 
the Prudential Authority may determine.  
 
(b) The Prudential Authority may revoke any suspension under subsection (1 ) or (2),  if satisfied that 
the insurer  or controlling company has complied with all the conditions  to which the suspension 
was made subject.  
 
(4)  
(a) The Prudential Authority must publish a notice of any suspension, the reasons  therefor, and any 
terms attached thereto on the official website and in any other media  that the Prudential Authority 
deems appropriate.  
 
(b) The suspension of a licence of an insurer or controlling company takes effect on  the date specified 
in the notice referred to in paragraph (a).  
 
(5)  
(a) The Prudential Authority must publish a notice of any revocation of a  suspension and the reasons 
therefor on the official website and in the same media that the  suspension notice was published 
under subsection (4)(a).  
 
(b) The revocation of a suspension of a licence of an insurer or controlling company  takes effect on 
the date specified in the notice referred to in paragraph (a).
#\
  
#\ 
28.  Consequences of suspension of licence  
 
(1) From the date on which a suspension takes effect as referred to in section  27(4)(b), the Prudential 
Author ity must take all measures necessary to safeguard the  interests of policyholders of an insurer or 
an insurer that is part of an insurance group.  
 
(2) From the date on which a suspension takes effect, the insurer may not enter into  new insurance policies 
in the class or sub -classes to which the suspension relates, but  must continue to conduct the insurance 
business for which it was licensed in respect of  insurance policies entered into before the effective date 
of the suspension.  
 
(3) The Prudential Authorit y, subsequent to suspending the licence of an insurer or a  controlling company, 
may — 
 
(a) if the insurer or controlling company remedies the circumstances that  informed the suspension to 
the satisfaction of the Prudential Authority within  a reasonable peri od, revoke the suspension and, 
if appropriate, vary the  licence conditions of the insurer or controlling company; or  
(b) withdraw the licence.
#\  
 
#\
29.  Withdrawal of licence  
 
(1) The Prudential Authority may withdraw a licence of an insurer or controlling  com pany in full or in part, if 
it appears to the Prudential Authority, on the basis of  available information, that — 
 
(a) an insurer or controlling company — 
 
(i) did not furnish all information which is material to an application for a  licence;  
 
(ii) made a ma terial misrepresentation to members of the public in  connection with the 
insurance business carried on by it;  
 
(iii) obtained the licence by making false statements or by any other irregular  means;  
 
(iv) fails to submit any plan, scheme or strategy require d under this Act, or  fails to comply with 
any approved plan, scheme or strategy, or submits a  plan, scheme or strategy that is 
inadequate; or   
 
(v) subsequent to the suspension of its licence under section 27, fails to  remedy the 
circumstances that informe d the suspension to the satisfaction  of the Prudential Authority 
within a reasonable period;  
 
(b) in the case of an insurer, the insurer — 
 
(i) notified the Prudential Authority of its intention to cease to enter into any  new insurance 
policies;  
 
(ii) faile d to commence with conducting insurance business within a period  of 12 months after 
being licensed to do so;  
 
(iii) ceased to enter into insurance policies to an extent which does not justify  its continued 
licensing as an insurer; or  
 
(iv) no longer conduc ts insurance business as a result of a transfer or  transaction contemplated 
in section 50;  
 
(c) in the case of a branch of a foreign reinsurer, Lloyd ’s underwriter or Lloyd ’s, the circumstances 
referred to in section 48 justify the withdrawal; or  
 
(d) any proceedings referred to under Chapter 9 have been finalised.   
(2) An insurer or a person in control of the affairs of the insurer must notify the  Prudential Authority in writing 
of the occurrence of a circumstance contemplated in  subsection (1)(b)(ii ) to ( iv) or (d).  
 
(3) A controlling company or a person in control of the affairs of the controlling  company must notify the 
Prudential Authority in writing of the occurrence of a  circumstance contemplated in subsection (1)(d).  
 
(4)  
(a) Prior to the withdrawal  of a licence of an insurer, in the circumstances referred  to under subsection 
(1) other than subsection (1)(b)(i), the Prudential Authority must  direct the insurer — 
 
(i) not to dispose of or encumber any assets or liabilities, or incur any additional  liab ility, 
without the approval of the Prudential Authority;  
 
(ii) not to enter into any new insurance policies from a date specified; and  
 
(iii) to make arrangements to the satisfaction of the Prudential Authority to — 
 
(aa ) discharge its obligations under all  insurance policies entered into before the  date 
referred to in subparagraph (ii);  
 
(bb ) ensure the orderly resolution of the business of the insurer; or  
 
(cc) transfer that insurance business to another insurer under section 50 by a  specified 
date.  
 
(b) If an insurer fails to comply with a directive under paragraph (a), the Prudential  Authority may 
initiate any proceedings under Chapter 9.  
 
(5)  
(a) The Prudential Authority must publish a notice of withdrawal of the licence  and the reasons 
therefor on the official website and in any other media that the Prudential  Authority deems 
appropriate.  
 
(b) The withdrawal of a licence of an insurer or controlling company takes effect on  the date specified 
in the notice referred to in paragraph (a). 
#\ 
 
CHAPTER 5  
GOVERNA NCE  
 
Part 1  
Insurers and insurance groups  

#\   
30.  Governance framework  
 
(1) An insurer and a controlling company must adopt, implement and document an  effective governance 
framework that provides for the prudent management and  oversight of — 
 
(a) in the case o f an insurer, its insurance business, and which adequately protects  the interests of 
its policyholders; or  
 
(b) in the case of a controlling company, the insurance group ’s business  (including the business of 
all persons that are part of the insurance group ), and  which adequately protects the interests of 
policyholders of the insurers that are  part of the insurance group.  
 
(2) The governance framework must — 
 
(a) be proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the insurance business  and the risks of 
the insurer, or the business and risks of the insurance group,  as the case may be;  
 
(b) include effective systems of corporate governance, risk management and  internal controls; and  
 
(c) address, and provide for, the matters prescribed.  
 
(3)  
(a) The board of directors of an insurer (other than a branch of a foreign reinsurer,  a Lloyd ’s 
underwriter or Lloyd ’s) is responsible for meeting the requirements imposed  on an insurer under 
this Act, irrespective of the delegation or outsourcing of any  responsibilitie s. 
 
(b) The board of directors of a controlling company is responsible for meeting the  requirements 
imposed on a controlling company under this Act, irrespective of the  delegation or outsourcing of 
any responsibilities.  
 
(c) The representative of a branch of a foreign reinsurer is responsible for meeting the  requirements 
imposed on it and a branch of a foreign reinsurer under this Act,  irrespective of the delegation or 
outsourcing of any responsibilities.  
 
(d) The representative of Lloyd ’s is responsible fo r meeting the requirements imposed  on it, Lloyd ’s 
underwriters and Lloyd ’s under this Act, irrespective of the delegation or  outsourcing of any 
responsibilities.  
 
(4) The Prudential Authority may prescribe governance principles and requirements  relating to — 
(a) in the case of an insurer, the achievement and maintenance of the stated  commitments in the 
plan referred to in section 22(1)(c)(iii ) and Item 6 of  Schedule 3;  
 
(b) in the case of an insurer (other than a branch of a foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s) and a controlling 
company — 
 
(i) the composition and governance of the board of directors, including  requirements relating 
to independence;  
 
(ii) the roles and responsibilities of the board of directors (in addition to  those provided for in 
the Companies Act) ; 
 
(iii) the duties of directors; and  
 
(iv) the structure of the board of directors, including the committees that must  be established;  
 
(c) risk management, including in respect of — 
 
(i) a risk management system;  
 
(ii) a risk management strategy;  
 
(iii) a risk management policy; and  
 
(iv) own risk and solvency assessments;  
 
(d) internal control, including in respect of an internal control system;  
 
(e) control functions, including in respect of — 
 
(i) required control functions;  
 
(ii) requirements for contro l functions; and  
 
(iii) roles, responsibilities and functions of control functions and heads of  control functions; and  
 
(f) outsourcing by an insurer or a controlling company, including in respect of — 
 
(i) an outsourcing policy, and the matters that must b e included and  addressed in that policy;  
 
(ii) the principles and requirements with which any outsourcing, and  remuneration paid in 
respect of outsourcing, must comply;    
(iii) the requirements with which an insurer or a controlling company, and  any person that will 
perform an outsourced function or activity, must  comply;  
 
(iv) the matters that must be included or addressed, or may not be included in  an outsourcing 
contract;  
 
(v) the functions or activities that may not be outsourced, or may only be  outsourc ed after the 
Prudential Authority has been notified of the  proposed outsourcing, and the information that 
must accompany that  notification;  
 
(vii) matters relating to any outsourcing of which the Prudential Authority  must be informed; and  
 
(viii ) limitatio ns on or requirements for sub -outsourcing. 
#\ 
 
#\
31.  Failure to maintain governance framework  
 
(1) An insurer or a controlling company must have procedures in place to identify  any non -compliance with 
section 30, and in the case of a branch of a foreign reinsur er and Lloyd ’s, also with Part 2 of this Chapter 
and Part 2 of Chapter 6.  
 
(2)  
(a) An insurer or a controlling company that fails to comply with section 30 must,  without delay — 
 
(i) notify the Prudential Authority of the failure and the reasons for the fa ilure;  
 
(ii) within 30 days after the notification referred to in subparagraph (i), submit a  compliance 
scheme to the Prudential Authority for approval that sets out the  measures that the insurer 
or controlling company will implement within a four -month  period to remedy any non -
compliance.  
 
(b) The Prudential Authority may, if appropriate, extend the four -month period  referred to in 
paragraph (a)(ii ) by two months and, in exceptional circumstances, extend  that period by an 
appropriate period of time, taking  into account all relevant factors.  
 
(3) An insurer or a controlling company whose compliance scheme was approved as  contemplated in 
subsection (2 ) must submit a monthly progress report to the Prudential  Authority that sets out the 
measures taken and the p rogress made with implementing the  compliance scheme.  
 
(4) The Prudential Authority may, until a compliance scheme is implemented — 
 
(a) restrict or prohibit certain activities or transactions of the insurer or insurance  group; or     
(b) in the case of an ins urer (other than a branch of a foreign reinsurer, a Lloyd ’s underwriter or 
Lloyd ’s) and a controlling company, impose conditions or  limitations on the insurer, controlling 
company, or board of directors of the  insurer or controlling company;  
 
(c) in the ca se of a branch of a foreign reinsurer, impose conditions or limitations  on the branch or 
the representative of the branch; or  
 
(d) in respect of Lloyd ’s, impose conditions or limitations on Lloyd ’s underwriters,  Lloyd ’s or the 
representative of Lloyd ’s. 
 
(5) The Prudential Authority may — 
 
(a) in the case of an insurer (other than a branch of a foreign reinsurer, a Lloyd ’s underwriter or 
Lloyd ’s) and a controlling company, require the board of  directors or senior management, or both, 
of the insurer or contro lling company  to demonstrate that the governance framework requirements 
provided for in  this Part and any other prescribed requirements are being complied with; or  
 
(b) in the case of a branch of a foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s, require the  representative o f a branch of 
a foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s to demonstrate that  the governance framework requirements 
provided for in this Part and any  other prescribed requirements are being complied with.  
 
(6) If the Prudential Authority reasonably believes that the ef fectiveness of the  governance framework of an 
insurer or controlling company or a part thereof requires  further investigation, the Prudential Authority 
may direct the insurer or controlling  company to secure an independent review of the governance 
framewor k by a person to  be approved by the Prudential Authority at the cost of the insurer or controlling  
company.  
 
(7) The Prudential Authority may — 
 
(a) in the case of an insurer (other than a branch of a foreign reinsurer, a Lloyd ’s underwriter or 
Lloyd ’s) and  a controlling company, direct an insurer, a  controlling company, or the board of 
directors or other key persons of the  insurer or controlling company, to strengthen or effect 
improvements to the  insurer or controlling company ’s governance framework or a p art thereof;  
 
(b) in the case of a branch of a foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s, direct a branch of a  foreign reinsurer, 
Lloyd ’s or the representative or other key person of a branch  of a foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s, to 
strengthen or effect improvements to th e governance framework or a part thereof of the branch 
of a foreign reinsurer or  Lloyd ’s. 
 
(8) This section does not limit any other action that the Prudential Authority may take  in terms of this Act.
#\
  
#\
32.  Auditor  
 
(1)  
(a) An insurer (other than a branch of a foreign reinsurer, Lloyd ’s underwriter  or Lloyd ’s) and a 
controlling company must at all times have an auditor appointed by the  insurer and the controlling 
company, respectively.  
 
(b) Sections 90 to 93, inclusive, of the Companies Act apply to an insu rer referred to  in paragraph (a ) 
and a controlling company.  
 
(2) The representative of a branch of a foreign reinsurer and Lloyd ’s must appoint an  auditor to audit the 
information and statements identified in section 47.  
 
(3)  
(a) If an insurer, a controll ing company or a representative of a branch of a foreign  reinsurer or Lloyd ’s 
for any reason fails to appoint an auditor under subsection (1 ) or (2),  the Prudential Authority 
may — 
 
(i) despite the Companies Act, appoint an auditor for that insurer or contr olling  company;  
 
(ii) appoint an auditor for the purpose set out in subsection (2).  
 
(b) A person or firm appointed under paragraph (a ) is deemed to have been appointed  by that insurer, 
controlling company or representative of a branch of a foreign reinsur er or Lloyd ’s in accordance 
with this Act.  
 
(4) The auditor must, in addition to the requirements of the Financial Sector  Regulation Act, without delay, 
submit a detailed written report to the Prudential  Authority, and also to the board of directors in the  case 
of an insurer referred to in  subsection (1 ) and a controlling company, on any matter of which the auditor 
becomes  aware in the performance of the auditor ’s functions and duties referred to in subsection  (6), 
and which, in the opinion of the auditor — 
 
(a) in respect of the business of the insurer or insurance group, may be contrary  to the governance 
framework requirements of this Act, or amounts to  inadequate maintenance of internal controls;  
 
(b) in respect of a significant owner of the insurer or con trolling company,  constitutes a contravention 
of any section of this Act.  
 
(5) In the case of a branch of a foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s, the auditor must, in  addition to subsection (4), 
without delay, submit a detailed written report to the  Prudential Aut hority on any matter of which the 
auditor becomes aware in the  performance of the auditor ’s functions and duties referred to in subsection 
(6), and  which, in the opinion of the auditor, is likely to prejudice the ability of the branch of a  foreign 
reinsure r or Lloyd ’s to hold the required security in the trust.  
 
(6) The auditor of an insurer or a controlling company must — 
 
(a) audit the financial soundness of an insurer (other than a branch of a foreign  reinsurer, Lloyd ’s 
underwriter or Lloyd ’s) or controll ing company in the  manner prescribed;  
 
(b) audit the security held in a trust referred to in section 41 in the manner  prescribed;  
 
(c) perform the duties and functions assigned to the auditor of an insurer or a  controlling company 
under this Act, the Compa nies Act and the Auditing  Profession Act; and  
 
(d) perform any other duties or functions prescribed.
#\

#\ 
33.  Audit committee  
 
(1) Section 94 of the Companies Act, except section 94(2), applies to an insurer  (other than a branch of a 
foreign reinsurer, Lloyd ’s underwriter or Lloyd ’s) and a  controlling company.  
 
(2) An insurer (other than a branch of a foreign reinsurer, Lloyd ’s underwriter or  Lloyd ’s) and a controlling 
company must appoint an audit committee.  
 
(3) The audit committee must — 
 
(a) be structured to  ensure that it has the necessary authority, independence,  resources, expertise 
and access to all relevant employees and information to  perform its functions; and  
 
(b) in addition to the functions referred to in section 94(7 ) of the Companies Act,  perform the functions 
as may be prescribed.  
 
Part 2  
Additional governance requirements for representative offices of branches of foreign  reinsurers and 
Lloyd ’s
#\ 

#\ 
34.  Representative office  
 
(1)  A foreign reinsurer that is licensed to conduct reinsurance business or  Lloyd ’s must establish a 
representative office in the Republic.  
 
(2)  Page 47 of 148  
 
 
Prepared by:  (a) A foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s must appoint, and at all times have, a  representative and a deputy 
representative.  
 
(b) A representative and a deputy representative must be natural p ersons permanently  residing in 
the Republic for as long as he or she remains a representative and a deputy  representative.  
 
(3) The representative must — 
 
(a) ensure compliance — 
 
(i) with South African legislation, including this Act and any other  legislati on regulating the 
conduct of insurers; and  
 
(ii) by the trustee or trustees with South African legislation, including this  Act and the trust deed 
referred to in section 41; and  
 
(b) notify the Prudential Authority in writing of any non -compliance in terms of paragraph (a).  
 
(4) The Prudential Authority may prescribe requirements relating to the roles,  responsibilities and functions 
of a representative and deputy representative in addition to  those specified in subsection (3).
#\  
 
CHAPTER 6  
FINANCIAL SOUNDNESS  
 
Part 1  
Insurers and insurance groups  

#\
35.  Application of Part  
 
This Part does not apply to branches of foreign reinsurers, Lloyd ’s underwriters or  Lloyd ’s. 
 
Financially sound condition 
#\ 
 
#\
36.  Maintenance of financially sound condition  
 
(1) An insurer must a t all times maintain its business in a financially sound  condition, by holding eligible own 
funds that are at least equal to the minimum capital  requirement or solvency capital requirement, as 
prescribed, whichever is the greater.  
 
(2) A controlling compan y in respect of an insurance group must at all times maintain  the insurance group 
in a financially sound condition, by holding group eligible own  funds that are at least equal to the group 
solvency capital requirement as prescribed.     
(3) If the Prudential Authority reasonably believes that any value calculated by an  insurer or a controlling 
company in respect of its financial soundness does not reflect a  reasonable value for the purposes of 
this Act, the Prudential Authority may direct the  insurer or contro lling company — 
 
(a) to appoint, at the cost of the insurer or controlling company, a suitably  qualified person to be 
approved by the Prudential Authority to determine a  reasonable value, which value so determined 
will be deemed to be the value;  or 
 
(b) to calculate the value in a manner determined by the Prudential Authority,  which value so 
calculated will be deemed to be the value.   
 
(4) If the Prudential Authority reasonably believes that any principle, method,  assumption, technique, 
adjustment, calibrati on, parameter, calculation or model of an  insurer or controlling company used or 
applied in respect of its financial soundness  requires further investigation, the Prudential Authority may 
direct the insurer or  controlling company to secure an independent r eview thereof, at the cost of the 
insurer  or controlling company, by a person to be approved by the Prudential Authority.  
 
(5) The Prudential Authority may direct an insurer, a controlling company, or the  board of directors or other 
key persons of the insu rer or controlling company, to change,  amend, strengthen or effect improvements 
to any principle, method, assumption,  technique, adjustment, calibration, parameter, calculation or 
model of an insurer or  controlling company used or applied in respect of its  financial soundness.  
 
(6) The Prudential Authority may prescribe — 
 
(a) in respect of the calculation of financial soundness, the principles, methods  and assumptions that 
must be used in the calculation, and any approvals  required in respect of such princi ples, methods 
and assumptions;  
 
(b) in respect of assets — 
 
(i) the principles, methods and assumptions that must be used in the  valuation of assets;  
 
(ii) limitations relating to the — 
 
(aa ) type and kind of assets that may be taken into account for  calcula ting financial 
soundness;  
 
(bb ) maximum and minimum percentages of certain assets that may be  taken into 
account for calculating financial soundness;  
(cc) location of assets that may be taken into account for calculating  financial soundness; 
and  
 
(dd ) use  of assets; and  
 
(iii) custody arrangements in respect of assets;  
 
(c) in respect of technical provisions, the — 
 
(i) methods and assumptions that must be used in the valuation and  calculation of technical 
provisions;  
 
(ii) simplified methods and techniques  to calculate technical provisions, to  ensure that actuarial 
and statistical methods are proportionate to the  nature, scale and complexity of the risks 
supported;  
 
(d) in respect of liabilities other than technical provisions, the methods and  assumptions t hat must be 
used in the valuation of those liabilities;  
 
(e) in respect of eligible own funds — 
 
(i) the tiering and classification of basic own funds and ancillary own funds;  
 
(ii) the quantitative limits in respect of each tier referred to in subparagraph  (i); 
 
(iii) adjustments to own fund items;  
 
(iv) interests and transactions that must be disregarded; and  
 
(v) the criteria that ancillary own funds must comply with;  
 
(f) in respect of the minimum capital requirement — 
 
(i) the calculation and calibration  of the minimum capital requirement;  
 
(ii) the frequency at and the circumstances under which the minimum capital  requirement must 
be calculated or estimated;  
 
(g) in respect of the solvency capital requirement or group solvency requirement — 
 
(i) the frequ ency at and the circumstances under which the solvency capital  requirement or 
the group solvency requirement must be calculated or  estimated;     
(ii) the standard formula for calculating the solvency capital requirement or  the group solvency 
capital requirem ent, and — 
 
(aa ) the methods, assumptions, and standard parameters to be used in  respect of the 
standard formula or any module or sub -module  thereof;  
 
(bb ) the— 
 
(A) subset of standard parameters that, subject to approval by the  Prudential 
Authority, may be  replaced by insurer -specific or  insurance group -specific 
parameters;  
 
(B) standardised methods to be used by an insurer or a controlling  company to 
calculate the insurer -specific or insurance group -specific  parameters; and  
 
(C) criteria in respect of gove rnance and the completeness,  accuracy, and 
appropriateness of the data used for insurer -specific  or insurance group -
specific parameters;  
 
(cc) the methods and adjustments relating to ring -fenced funds that  must be used to 
reflect the reduced scope for risk  diversification in  respect of those funds; and  
 
(dd ) any simplified calculations for specific sub -modules and risk  modules, and the 
criteria that must be met for an insurer or a  controlling company to be able to use 
each of those simplifications;  
 
(iii) requirements for the use of a full or partial internal model to calculate the  solvency capital 
requirement, group solvency capital requirement or a  part thereof, including the — 
 
(aa ) governance, use test, statistical quality, calibration, model validation,  modeling and 
documentation standards that apply to those full  or partial internal models;  
 
(bb ) process for applying for the Prudential Authority ’s approval of a  full or a partial 
internal model; and  
 
(cc) responsibilities of the insurer, controlling compa ny, board of  directors and senior 
managers in respect of a full or a partial  internal model;  
 
(h) in respect of reinsurance business or reinsurance arrangements — 
 
(i) requirements for the recognition and treatment of reinsurance for  financial soundness;     
(ii) limitations on the extent of the reinsurance business that an insurer or a  reinsurer may 
place with another insurer or reinsurer individually or in  aggregate;  
 
(iii) the principles and requirements with which any reinsurance arrangement  must comply;  
 
(iv) the matters that must be included or addressed, or may not be included,  in a reinsurance 
arrangement; and  
 
(i) requirements in respect of — 
 
(i) investments;  
 
(ii) the use of financial instruments, including derivatives;  
 
(iii) off-balance sheet transac tions;  
 
(iv) intra -group transactions;  
 
(v) transactions that may increase, encumber or reduce assets or liabilities;  or 
 
(vi) financial or other exposures to entities that are part of an insurance group. 
#\
 
#\ 
37.  Capital add -on 
 
(1) The Prudential Authority m ay direct a capital add -on for an insurer or an  insurance group, if the 
Prudential Authority reasonably believes that — 
 
(a) the risk profile of the insurer or the insurance group deviates significantly  from the assumptions 
underlying the solvency capital r equirement calculation  or the group solvency capital requirement 
calculation; or  
 
(b) the governance framework of an insurer or a controlling company deviates  significantly from the 
requirements of this Act.  
 
(2)  
(a) In the circumstances referred to in su bsection (1)(a), the capital add -on that is  imposed by the 
Prudential Authority must be such that the solvency capital requirement  or group solvency capital 
requirement after the capital add -on is in line with the  underlying prescribed assumptions of the 
solvency capital requirement or group  solvency capital requirement.  
(b) In the circumstances referred to in subsection (1)(b), the capital add -on that is  imposed by the 
Prudential Authority must reflect the significance of the deviation of the  governance f ramework 
from the requirements of the Act.  
 
(3) The Prudential Authority, if an insurer ’s minimum capital requirement exceeds its  solvency capital 
requirement, may direct the capital add -on to be applied to the  minimum capital requirement of the 
insurer.  
 
(4) The Prudential Authority must review any capital add -on imposed at least once a  year and remove the 
capital add -on when the Prudential Authority is satisfied that an  insurer or controlling company has 
remedied the deficiencies that led to its imposition.
#\ 
 
#\
38.  Capital and securities  
 
(1) An insurer or controlling company that is a profit company, or an insurer that  is a co -operative whose 
constitution provides for membership shares to be issued to  members, may not, without the approval of 
the Prudential Authority — 
 
(a) authorise any additional shares, convert shares from one type to another type  of shares or 
repurchase any of its shares;  
 
(b) issue securities other than shares;  
 
(c) reduce its share capital;  
 
(d) allow a subsidiary to directly or indirect ly acquire shares in it; or  
 
(e) conclude a transaction contemplated in section 45 (loans or other financial  assistance to directors ) 
of the Companies Act.  
 
(2) The Prudential Authority may prescribe the circumstances in which approval  under subsection (1 ) is not 
required.
#\  

#\
39.  Failure to maintain financially sound condition  
 
(1)  
(a) An insurer or a controlling company must have procedures in place to  identify deteriorating 
financial soundness that may cause a failure to comply with  section 36.  
 
(b) An ins urer or a controlling company may not declare or pay a dividend to its  shareholders or make 
a surplus or profit distribution to its members — 
(i) if it fails or is likely to fail to comply with section 36; or  
 
(ii) if the declaration, payment or distributi on would result in it failing or being  likely to fail to 
comply with section 36.  
 
(2)  
(a) An insurer or a controlling company that fails to — 
 
(i) hold assets or invest those assets in accordance with any prescribed requirements,  
limitations or conditions;  or 
 
(ii) provide for its technical provisions or other liabilities in accordance with  prescribed 
requirements,  
 
must, without delay, notify the Prudential Authority of the failure, the reasons for the  failure and 
the measures to be implemented to comply w ith the requirements.  
 
(b) The Prudential Authority may take any measures the Prudential Authority  considers necessary to 
address the failure referred to in paragraph (a).  
 
(3) An insurer must, without delay, notify the Prudential Authority of its failure to meet or of any risk that it 
may in the following three months fail to meet its minimum  capital requirement or solvency capital 
requirement.  
 
(4) A controlling company must, without delay, notify the Prudential Authority of its  failure to meet or of any 
risk that it may in the following three months fail to meet its  group solvency capital requirement.  
 
(5)  
(a) If an insurer gives notice to the Prudential Authority under subsection (3 ) that  it is failing or may 
in the following three months fail to meet i ts minimum capital  requirement, or if the Prudential 
Authority reasonably believes that an insurer is failing  or may in the following three months fail to 
meet its minimum capital requirement, the  Prudential Authority may — 
 
(i) direct the insurer to, withi n one month, submit a short -term recapitalisation  scheme to the 
Prudential Authority for approval that sets out the measures that  the insurer will implement 
within a period not exceeding three months after the  submission of the short -term 
recapitalisation scheme to — 
 
(aa ) restore its eligible own funds to at least the level of its minimum capital  requirement; 
or 
 
(bb ) reduce its risk profile to ensure compliance with its minimum capital  requirement; or     
(ii) take any action referred to in Chapter 4 or Chapt er 9.  
 
(b) The Prudential Authority may, if appropriate, extend the three -month period  referred to in 
paragraph (a)(i ) by three months and, in exceptional circumstances, extend  that period by an 
appropriate period of time, taking into account all relevant factors.  
 
(6)  
(a) If an insurer gives notice to the Prudential Authority under subsection (3 ) that  it is failing or may 
in the following three months fail to meet its solvency capital  requirement, or if the Prudential 
Authority reasonably believes that an  insurer is failing  or may in the following three months fail to 
meet its solvency capital requirement, the  Prudential Authority may direct the insurer to, within 
the period agreed with the  Prudential Authority, which period may not exceed two months, subm it 
a recapitalisation strategy to the Prudential Authority for approval that sets out the  measures that 
the insurer will implement within a period agreed with the Prudential  Authority, which period may 
not exceed six months, to — 
 
(i) re-establish the level  of eligible own funds necessary for complying with the  solvency 
capital requirement; or  
 
(ii) reduce its risk profile to ensure compliance with the solvency capital  requirement.  
 
(b) The Prudential Authority may, if appropriate, extend the six -month perio d referred  to in paragraph 
(a) by three months and, in exceptional circumstances, extend that  period by an appropriate 
period of time, taking into account all relevant factors.  
 
(7)  
(a) If a controlling company gives notice to the Prudential Authority und er subsection (4 ) that it is 
failing or may in the following three months fail to meet its group  solvency capital requirement, or 
if the Prudential Authority reasonably believes that a  controlling company is failing or may in the 
following three months fai l to meet its  group solvency capital requirement, the Prudential Authority 
may direct the controlling  company to, within the period agreed with the Prudential Authority, 
which period may  not exceed two months, submit a recapitalisation strategy to the Prud ential 
Authority for  approval that sets out the measures that the controlling company will implement 
within  a period agreed with the Prudential Authority, which period may not exceed six months,  
to— 
 
(i) re-establish the level of eligible own funds necessa ry for complying with its  group solvency 
capital requirement; or  
 
(ii) reduce its risk profile to ensure compliance with its group solvency capital  requirement.  
(b) The Prudential Authority may, if appropriate, extend the six -month period referred  to in p aragraph 
(a) by three months and, in exceptional circumstances, extend that  period by an appropriate 
period of time, taking into account all relevant factors.  
 
(8) An insurer or a controlling company whose short -term recapitalisation scheme or  recapitalisa tion 
strategy was approved must submit a monthly progress report to the  Prudential Authority that sets out 
the measures taken and the progress made with  implementing the scheme or strategy.  
 
(9) The Prudential Authority may restrict or prohibit certain act ivities or transactions  of the insurer, 
controlling company or insurance group until the capital requirements are  complied with and the financial 
soundness of the insurer or insurance group has been  restored.  
 
(10)  A short -term recapitalisation scheme or r ecapitalisation strategy must include the  matters as prescribed.  
 
(11 ) This section does not limit any other action that the Prudential Authority may  take in terms of this Act.
#\  
 
Part 2  
Security requirements for branches of foreign reinsurers and Lloyd ’s 
#\
40. Security to be held in trust  
 
(1) A branch of a foreign reinsurer must provide and maintain security in respect  of its insurance business 
conducted in the Republic in the form of assets valued in  accordance with prescribed requirements that 
are at least  equal to the technical  provisions for the insurance business calculated in accordance with 
this Act.  
 
(2) Lloyd ’s underwriters must provide and maintain security in respect of the  insurance business conducted 
in the Republic in the form of assets valued i n accordance  with prescribed requirements that are at least 
equal to the aggregate of the technical  provisions for the insurance business of each Lloyd ’s underwriter 
in the Republic  calculated in accordance with this Act.  
 
(3) The security referred to in s ubsections (1 ) and (2 ) must — 
 
(a) comply with any matters prescribed;  
 
(b) be held in trust and be provided to the trustees of the trust referred to in section  41; and  
 
(c) be reported on by the representative of the branch of a foreign insurer or  Lloyd ’s in accordance 
with Chapter 7.  
 
(4) The Prudential Authority may prescribe matters referred to in section 36(6 ) in respect of a branch of a 
foreign reinsurer, Lloyd ’s underwriters, Lloyd ’s or the security  referred to in subsection (1 ) or (2).    
(5) Section 3 6(3), (4 ) and (5 ) apply with the necessary changes to a branch of a  foreign insurer, Lloyd ’s 
underwriter, Lloyd ’s and any security referred to in subsection  (1) or (2).  
 
(6) For the purposes of this section “insurance business conducted in the Republic ” me ans insurance 
business relating to any — 
 
(a) risk of a policyholder residing or located in the Republic irrespective of where  the risk is located 
and includes any placement of insurance business through  a person that provides binder 
functions referred to i n section 49A(1 ) of the  Long -term Insurance Act, 1998, or section 48A(1 ) of 
the Short -term Insurance  Act, 1998, on behalf of Lloyd ’s or a Lloyd ’s underwriter; and  
 
(b) risk emanating in the Republic irrespective of where the policyholder resides  or is loca ted.  
 
41.  Trust and trustees  
 
(1) A branch of a foreign reinsurer and Lloyd ’s must establish a trust in the  Republic in accordance with the 
Trust Property Control Act, 1988 (Act No. 57 of 1988).  
 
(2) The trust and the trust deed must comply with any prescr ibed requirements and be  approved by the 
Prudential Authority.  
 
(3)  
(a) The Prudential Authority may, at any time, direct that the trust deed be varied  or substituted, or 
that an additional trustee must be appointed, if the Prudential Authority  reasonably  believes that 
it is in the public interest, the interests of policyholders or  potential policyholders of the insurer, or 
in the interest of maintaining the security  referred to in section 40.  
 
(b) The trust deed may not be amended or terminated by any per son without the prior  approval of 
the Prudential Authority.  
 
(4) The Prudential Authority may prescribe requirements relating to the — 
 
(a) roles, responsibilities and functions of trustees; and  
 
(b) roles, responsibilities and functions of the representati ve of a branch of a  foreign reinsurer or 
Lloyd ’s in respect of the trust.  
 
(5) Despite the Trust Property Control Act, 1988, if any trustee of a trust fails to  comply with any 
requirements of this Act or any provision of the trust deed, the  Prudential Auth ority, on notice to the 
branch of a foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s and the  trustee, may exercise the powers of that trustee under 
the trust deed.      
(6) The funds held in the trust may not, without the approval of the Prudential  Authority, be withdrawn or 
acc essed by a foreign reinsurer, a Lloyd ’s underwriter or  Lloyd ’s in circumstances other than those 
referred to in section 7(2)(a).
#\  
 
#\
42.  Failure to provide or maintain security  
 
(1) A branch of a foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s must, without delay, notify the  Prudential Authority of its failure 
to provide or maintain the security referred to in  section 40 or any risk of non -compliance with the security 
requirements in the following  three months.  
 
(2) The Prudential Authority may, in the circumstances referred to in subsection (1),  or if the Prudential 
Authority reasonably believes that a branch of a foreign reinsurer  or a Lloyd ’s underwriter is failing to 
provide or maintain the security referred to in  section 40 — 
 
(a) direct a branch of a foreign reinsurer or Llo yd’s to submit a recovery scheme  to the Prudential 
Authority for approval that sets out the measures that the  branch of a foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s 
will implement to restore the security;  or 
 
(b) suspend or withdraw the licence of the branch of a foreig n reinsurer or Lloyd ’s underwriters and 
Lloyd ’s. 
 
(3) In the circumstances referred to in subsection (2)(a), the Prudential Authority,  despite the Trust Property 
Control Act, 1988 (Act No. 57 of 1988), is deemed to be the  sole trustee of the trust and may exercise 
the powers of that trustee under the trust deed.  
 
(4) A branch of a foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s whose recovery scheme was approved  must submit a monthly 
progress report to the Prudential Authority that sets out the  measures taken and the progress  made with 
implementing the recovery scheme.  
 
(5) The Prudential Authority may restrict or prohibit certain activities or transactions  of the branch of a 
foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s underwriters until the security  requirements are complied with.  
 
(6) A re covery scheme must include the matters as prescribed.  
 
(7) This section does not limit any other action that the Prudential Authority may take  in terms of this Act.
#\  
 
CHAPTER 7  
REPORTING AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURES  
#\
43.  Information concerning beneficial interest s 
(1) An insurer (other than branch of a foreign reinsurer, Lloyd ’s underwriters or  Lloyd ’s) and a controlling 
company must, when required to do so by the Prudential  Authority, provide the Prudential Authority with 
any information the Prudential  Authority  may require in the form, manner and containing the particulars 
which the  Prudential Authority determines, in respect of — 
 
(a) the names of its shareholders, other holders of a beneficial interest, and the  size of their 
shareholding and other beneficial in terests, as the case may be;  and  
 
(b) the name of any person who, directly or indirectly, has the power to require the  shareholders 
referred to in paragraph (a ) to exercise their rights as  shareholders in the insurer or controlling 
company in accordance wi th such  person ’s directions or instructions.  
 
(2) A person, or any person acting on behalf of that person, must, at the request of an  insurer or a controlling 
company, provide the insurer or controlling company with the  information it may require for the p urposes 
of complying with subsection (1), if — 
 
(a) shares in an insurer or an insurance group are registered in that person ’s name;  
 
(b) that person wishes to have shares in an insurer or a controlling company  allotted, issued or 
registered in that person ’s name.
#\  
 
#\
44.  Information for supervisory purposes  
 
(1) In addition to any specific or general requirement provided for elsewhere in  this Act or the Financial 
Sector Regulation Act, an insurer and a controlling company  must provide the Prudential Authority with 
any information the Prudential Authority  may reasonably require in the form, manner and at the intervals 
determined by the  Prudential Authority for the supervision and enforcement of this Act (including the  
resolution of an insurer or a controlling co mpany).  
 
(2) An insurer and a controlling company must, when providing information, ensure  that the information — 
 
(a) is complete in all material respects, comparable and consistent from one  reporting period to 
another; and  
 
(b) is relevant, reliable and comprehensible.
#\  
 
#\
45.  Annual disclosures  
 
(1) An insurer and a controlling company must annually, by no later than four  months after its financial year 
end, publicly disclose the prescribed quantitative and  qualitative information in full, or by way of 
promi nent references to information  equivalent in nature and scope disclosed publicly under any other 
law or legal  obligation, in the form and manner as may be prescribed.  
(2)  
(a) The Prudential Authority may approve the non -disclosure of specific  information  if the disclosure 
thereof — 
 
(i) may afford the competitors of the insurer or controlling company undue  advantage;  
 
(ii) is subject to contractual obligations of secrecy and confidentiality;  
 
(iii) may negatively impact on the financial soundness of the in surer or controlling  company; or  
 
(vi) may negatively impact on the financial stability of the insurance sector.  
 
(b) If the Prudential Authority approves the non -disclosure of specific information,  the Prudential 
Authority may direct the insurer or the co ntrolling company to include a  statement to this effect 
and the reasons therefore in its disclosure.  
 
(3)  
(a) In the event of any major development affecting the relevance of the  information disclosed in 
accordance with subsection (1), an insurer or a con trolling  company must publicly disclose 
appropriate information on the nature and effects of that  major development, unless the Prudential 
Authority has approved that such disclosure  need not be made.  
 
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a), “a major develo pment ” means any  non -compliance with this 
Act or any review, investigation or verification required by the  Prudential Authority in accordance 
with this Act.  
 
(c) In the circumstances referred to in paragraph (a), an insurer or a controlling  company must 
immediately publicly disclose the extent of non -compliance, an  explanation of the reasons for the 
non -compliance, the consequences thereof, and the  remedial measures taken by the insurer, 
unless the Prudential Authority has approved  that such disclosure need  not take place.
#\  

#\ 
46.  Annual financial statements and accounting requirements  
 
(1) An insurer (other than a foreign branch of an insurer, Lloyd ’s underwriter or  Lloyd ’s) and a controlling 
company must annually prepare, in respect of the relevant  financial year of the insurer or controlling 
company, annual financial statements in  accordance with the Companies Act and International Financial 
Reporting Standards  issued by the International Accounting Standards Board or a successor body.  
 
(2) The Prudential Aut hority may prescribe additional statements that must be  included in the annual 
financial statements of an insurer or a controlling company after  consultation with any relevant regulatory 
authority.  
#\

#\  
47.  Auditing requirements  
 
(1) An insurer (other than a b ranch of a foreign reinsurer, Lloyd ’s underwriter or  Lloyd ’s) and a controlling 
company must annually cause the following to be audited and  reported on by its auditor in accordance 
with auditing pronouncements as defined in  section 1 of the Auditing Profes sion Act:  
 
(a) Such of the information referred to in sections 44 and 45 as prescribed; and  
 
(b) the annual financial statements referred to in section 46.  
 
(2)  
(a) The audited annual financial statements of the insurer must be submitted to the  Prudential  
Authority and made available to the public within the prescribed period after  its financial year -end.  
 
(b) The audited annual financial statements of a controlling company must be  submitted to the 
Prudential Authority within the prescribed period after it s financial  year -end.  
 
(3) A branch of a foreign reinsurer and Lloyd ’s must annually cause the following to  be audited and reported 
on by its auditor in accordance with auditing pronouncements as  defined in section 1 of the Auditing 
Profession Act:  
 
(a) Such of the information referred to in sections 44 and 45 as prescribed; and  
 
(b) the security held in the trust referred to in section 41.  
 
(4) The audit of the security held in the trust referred to in section 41 must be  submitted to the Prudential 
Authori ty and made available to the public within the  prescribed period after the audit.  
 
(5) The Prudential Authority may, in addition to auditing pronouncements as defined  in section 1 of the 
Auditing Profession Act, prescribe auditing standards or requirements  in respect of the information 
referred to sections 41, 44 and 45.
#\  
 
#\
48.  Additional information relating to foreign reinsurers, Lloyd ’s underwriters or  Lloyd ’s 
 
(1) A branch of a foreign reinsurer and Lloyd ’s must as soon as reasonably  possible notify the P rudential 
Authority of any — 
 
(a) changes to a law (including any subordinate laws ) under which the head office  of a foreign 
reinsurer or Lloyd ’s is authorised or supervised to perform  business similar to insurance business; 
and  
(b) any actions taken by a regulatory authority in the country in which the head  office of a foreign 
reinsurer or Lloyd ’s is located relating to the non -compliance  of that foreign reinsurer, Lloyd ’s 
underwriter or Lloyd ’s with the  laws referred to in paragraph (a).  
 
(2) The Prudentia l Authority may, on notification under subsection (1), or upon  becoming aware of the 
changes or actions referred to in subsection (1), in addition to any  other action that the Prudential 
Authority may take — 
 
(a) impose additional reporting requirements and  increase financial soundness  monitoring activities; 
or 
 
(b) take actions under sections 26 to 29.
#\  
 
#\
49.  Additional matters relating to Chapter  
 
(1) If the Prudential Authority reasonably believes that any information provided  in accordance with this 
Chapte r is incomplete or incorrect, the Prudential Authority  may — 
 
(a) direct the insurer or controlling company to provide the Prudential Authority,  within a specified 
period, with specified information or documents to  complete or correct information; or  
 
(b) reject the information and direct the insurer or controlling company to provide  the Prudential 
Authority, within a specified period, with new information  which is complete and correct.  
 
(2) If the Prudential Authority reasonably believes that information or  a part thereof  requires further 
investigation, the Prudential Authority may direct the insurer or  controlling company to provide additional 
information or to secure a report from a  person to be approved by the Prudential Authority, at the cost 
of the insu rer or  controlling company, by a specified date or within a specific period, and in the form,  
manner and containing the information as required by the Prudential Authority.
#\  
 
CHAPTER 8  
TRANSFERS OF BUSINESS AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS  
#\ 
50.  Transfer, fundamental transaction or change of institutional form  
 
(1) An insurer (other than a branch of a foreign reinsurer, Lloyd ’s underwriter or  Lloyd ’s) may not, without 
the approval of the Prudential Authority, transfer all or any  part of its assets and liabi lities relating to its 
insurance business to another insurer.   
 
(2) A branch of a foreign reinsurer or a Lloyd ’s underwriter may not, without the  approval of the Prudential 
Authority, transfer all or any part of its assets and liabilities  relating to its i nsurance business conducted 
in the Republic to another insurer.     
(3) An insurer (other than a branch of a foreign reinsurer, Lloyd ’s underwriter or  Lloyd ’s) or a controlling 
company may not, without the approval of the Prudential  Authority — 
 
(a) participat e in any fundamental transaction or compromise contemplated in  Part A of Chapter 5 or 
section 155 of the Companies Act; or  
 
(b) convert from one type of company to another, convert from a co -operative to  a company, or in 
any other way change the type of pe rson it was on the date  that it was licensed as an insurer or 
controlling company.  
 
(4) The Prudential Authority must only grant an approval referred to under  subsections (1 ) to (3 ) if the 
Prudential Authority is satisfied — 
 
(a) that the transfer, transact ion or change will not impede the financial soundness  of an insurer or 
controlling company that is a party to the transfer, transaction  or change;  
 
(b) in the case of an insurer, that the transfer, transaction or change does not  negatively impact on 
the in terest of policyholders;  
 
(c) in the case of a controlling company, that the transfer, transaction or change  does not negatively 
impact on the interests of policyholders of the insurers  that are part of the insurance group; and  
 
(d) that any prescribed pro cedures have been complied with.  
 
(5) The Prudential Authority may — 
 
(a) prescribe the requirements that an insurer and controlling company must  comply with in respect 
of transfers, transactions or changes, which may  include requirements for informing and 
consulting policyholders through  appropriate media; and  
 
(b) appoint a person, at the cost of the insurer or controlling company, to assess  the transfer, 
transaction or change and express a view on the desirability or  otherwise thereof.  
 
(6) A transfer, tr ansaction or change referred to in subsections (1 ) to (3 ) that is  approved by the Prudential 
Authority is binding on and enforceable against all persons.  
 
(7) Any person in charge of a deeds registry or other office in which any mortgage  bond or movable or  
immovable property is registered which is to be transferred in  accordance with an approved transfer, 
transaction or change referred to in subsections  (1) to (3), must, on receipt of the relevant bond, title 
deed or registration certificate and  a certified  copy of the Prudential Authority ’s approval, take the 
measures necessary to  effect the transfer.     
(8) Any transfer, transaction or change referred to in subsections (1 ) to (3 ) that is  effected without the 
approval of the Prudential Authority is void.
#\  

#\ 
51.  Acquisitions or disposals  
 
(1) An insurer (other than branch of a foreign reinsurer, Lloyd ’s underwriter or  Lloyd ’s) or a controlling 
company must, prior to making a material acquisition or  disposal, obtain the approval of the Prudential 
Authority.  
 
(2) The Prudential Authority must prescribe what constitutes a material acquisition or  disposal for the 
purposes of subsection (1).  
 
(3) The Prudential Authority may refuse to approve a material acquisition or disposal  if the Prudential 
Authority reasonably bel ieves that such an acquisition or disposal will  impede — 
 
(a) in the case of an insurer, the financial soundness of the insurer;  
 
(b) in the case of a controlling company — 
 
(i) the financial soundness of an insurer that is part of the insurance group;  or 
 
(ii) the ability of the Prudential Authority to determine — 
 
(aa ) how the different types of business of the insurance group are  conducted;  
 
(bb ) the risks of the insurance group and each person that is part of that  insurance group; 
or 
 
(cc) the manner in wh ich the governance framework is organised and  conducted for the 
insurance group and each person that is part of  that insurance group.  
 
(4) Despite any other law, any acquisition or disposal that is effected in contravention  of this section is void.
#\  
 
CHAPTE R 9  
RESOLUTION  
#\
52.  Application of Chapter  
 
(1)  
(a) This Chapter does not apply to a branch of a foreign reinsurer, a Lloyd ’s underwriter or Lloyd ’s. 
(b) Despite subsection (a), section 59 applies to a trust referred to in section 41.  
 
(2) The Prudential  Authority, in addition to any other action that the Prudential  Authority may take under this 
Act, may act in accordance with this Chapter — 
 
(a) if an insurer or controlling company fails to — 
 
(i) submit any plan, scheme or strategy required under this Act ; or  
 
(ii) comply with any plan, scheme or strategy approved under this Act;  
 
(b) if the Prudential Authority reasonably believes that a plan, scheme or strategy  submitted under 
this Act is inadequate; or  
 
(c) in the circumstances referred to in section 29 (4)(b).  
 
(3) The Prudential Authority, in addition to any other action that the Prudential  Authority may take under this 
Act, may act in accordance with section 59 in respect of  a trust referred to in section 41 — 
 
(a) if a branch of a foreign reinsurer or Lloyd ’s fails to — 
 
(i) provide or maintain the security referred to in section 41 in the trust;  
 
(ii) submit any plan or scheme required under this Act; or  
 
(iii) comply with any plan or scheme approved under this Act;  
 
(b) if the Prudential Authority reas onably believes that a plan or scheme  submitted under this Act is 
inadequate; or  
 
(c) in the circumstances referred to in section 29(4)(b).
#\  
 
Part 1  
Statutory management  

#\ 
53.  Appointment of statutory manager  
 
(1) Despite any other law, the Prudential Author ity may appoint a statutory  manager in terms of section 5A 
of the Financial Institutions (Protection of Funds ) Act in  respect of any insurer or controlling company.  
(2) If a statutory manager is appointed under this section, no business rescue or  winding -up proceedings 
referred to in this Chapter may be commenced in respect of an  insurer or a controlling company until 
the appointment of the statutory manager is  terminated.
#\  
 
Part 2  
Curatorship  
#\ 
54.  Appointment of curator  
 
(1) Despite any other law — 
 
(a) the court may, on application by the Prudential Authority; or  
 
(b) the Prudential Authority may by agreement with an insurer or controlling  company and without 
the intervention of the court,  
 
appoint a curator in terms of section 5 of the Financial Institutio ns (Protection of Funds)  Act in respect 
of any insurer or controlling company.  
 
(2) In addition to any powers or functions that may be afforded by a court to a curator  on appointment under 
subsection (1), but subject to section 5 of the Financial  Instituti ons (Protection of Funds ) Act, a curator 
on appointment — 
 
(a) is vested with the power to take and implement any decision in respect of the  insurer or the 
controlling company that would have required an ordinary  resolution or a special resolution of 
shareh olders or members of the insurer or  controlling company in terms of the provisions of the — 
 
(i) Companies Act;  
 
(ii) Co-operatives Act;  
 
(iii) Memorandum of Incorporation or the equivalent constitution, deed or  founding instrument 
of an insurer that is not  a company; or  
 
(iv) rules of any securities exchange registered under the Financial Markets  Act, 2012 (Act No. 
19 of 2012), on which any securities of the insurer or  controlling company are listed;  
 
(b) is vested with all executive powers which would ordi narily be vested in, and  exercised by, the key 
persons (other than an auditor or the head of a control  function ) of the insurer or controlling 
company, whether by law or in terms of  its Memorandum of Incorporation or the equivalent 
constitution, deed or  founding instrument of an insurer that is not a company, and the present key  
persons shall be divested of all such powers in relation to the business;   
(c) must take immediate control of, manage and investigate the business and  operations of and 
concerning t he insurer or controlling company, together  with all assets, interests and liabilities 
relating to such business, subject to the  control of the Prudential Authority in accordance with the 
provisions of  section 5(6 ) of the Financial Institutions (Protection  of Funds ) Act, and with  all such 
rights and obligations as may be pertaining thereto;  
 
(d) must at all times give consideration to the best interests of the policyholders of  the insurer or, in 
the case of a controlling company, the best interests of  polic yholders of the insurers that are part 
of the insurance group;   
 
(e) must exercise the powers vested in the curator with a view to conserving the  business and, with 
the prior approval of the Prudential Authority, may — 
 
(i) alienate or dispose of any of the  property or transfer any of the liabilities  or insurance 
business of the insurer or controlling company;  
 
(ii) cancel any guarantee issued by the insurer, other than a guarantee that  constitutes an 
insurance obligation under a life insurance policy, or  controlling company prior to the latter 
being placed under curatorship,  excluding such guarantee which the insurer or controlling 
company is  required to make good within a period of 30 days as from the date of the  
appointment of the curator; and  
 
(iii) raise  funding on behalf of the insurer or controlling company, despite any  contractual 
obligations of the insurer or controlling company, to provide  security over the assets of the 
insurer or controlling company in respect  of such funding;  
 
(f) in the case of a n insurer, must continue to conduct the insurance business for  which the insurer 
is licensed, but may not enter into new insurance policies  without the approval of the Prudential 
Authority;  
 
(g) must take custody of the cash, cash investments, shares, othe r securities or  investments held or 
administered by the insurer or controlling company, and  of other property (movable or immovable ) 
or effects belonging to or held by  or on instructions of the insurer or controlling company or any 
entity directly  or indir ectly controlled by, affiliated to or associated with the insurer or  controlling 
company;  
 
(h) must notify the Prudential Authority should the curator deem it necessary or  expedient that 
application be made to the court — 
(i) for the extension of the curat or’s powers to any other company  (including any holding 
company or subsidiary ) or other related or  inter -related person or person associated with 
the insurer or controlling  company;  
 
(ii) for the winding -up of the insurer or controlling company; or  
 
(iii) for any relief as envisaged in the Financial Sector Regulation Act against  the insurer or 
controlling company or any of its key persons;  
 
(i) may, in the curator ’s discretion and depending on available resources, make  full or part payments 
to policyholders  in identified circumstances, after the  prior approval of the Prudential Authority 
has been obtained;  
 
(j) may conduct any investigation with a view to locating the assets belonging to,  administered or 
controlled by the insurer or controlling company, incl uding  such assets held by way of securities, 
in cash or liquid form;  
 
(k) may incur such reasonable expenses and costs as may be necessary or  expedient for the 
curatorship and control of the insurer or controlling  company and operations of the insurer or 
controlling company, and to pay  same from the assets held, administered or under the control of 
the insurer or  controlling company;  
 
(l) may engage, after consultation with the Prudential Authority, such assistance  of a legal, 
accounting, administrative or other professional or technical nature  as the curator may reasonably 
deem necessary for the performance of the  curator ’s duties, and the curator may defray 
reasonable charges and expenses  thus incurred from the assets held or under control of the 
insurer o r controlling  company;  
 
(m) may institute or prosecute any legal proceedings on behalf of the insurer or the  controlling 
company, and defend any litigation against the insurer or  controlling company;  
 
(n) may invest such funds as are not required for the i mmediate purposes of the  business, with a 
bank registered under the Banks Act, 1990 (Act No. 94 of  1990), or other liquid instrument 
approved by the Prudential Authority;  
 
(o) may take control of and operate or freeze existing banking accounts of the  insur er or the 
controlling company and of its subsidiaries or related persons,  and of any director of the insurer 
or controlling company, insofar as any  money belonging to the insurer or controlling company has 
been deposited  into such latter banking account;  
 
(p) may open and operate any new banking accounts for the purposes of the  curatorship; and  
(q) may claim all costs, charges and other expenditure reasonably incurred by the  curator in the 
execution of duties in terms of this section, including the  curator ’s own remuneration, as 
administration costs, in the event of the  winding -up of the insurer or controlling company ensuing.  
 
(3) A curator, when acting in accordance with subsection (2), must consider the  expected effect on the 
creditors of the insurer or controlling company and whether — 
 
(a) creditors are treated in an equitable manner; and  
 
(b) when acting under subsection (2)(e)(i), a reasonable probability exists that a  creditor will not incur 
greater losses, as at the date of the proposed disposal,  transfer or disposal and transfer, than 
would have been incurred if the insurer  or controlling company had been wound -up on the date 
of the proposed  disposal, transfer or disposal and transfer.  
 
(4) A claim for damages in respect of any loss sustained by or d amage caused to any  person as a result of 
the cancellation of a guarantee referred to in subsection (2)(e)(ii),  other than a guarantee that constitutes 
an insurance obligation under a life insurance  policy, or provision of security, may be instituted again st 
the insurer or controlling  company after the expiration of a period of six months from the date of the 
cancellation.  
 
(5) An insurer or a controlling company may not begin or enter business rescue or be  wound -up while under 
curatorship within the meanin g of the Financial Institutions  (Protection of Funds ) Act, unless the curator 
applies for the business rescue or  winding -up.
#\  
 
Part 3  
Business Rescue  

#\ 
55.  Application of Companies Act to business rescue of insurers and controlling  companies  
 
(1) Despite any  other law under which an insurer or controlling company is  established or incorporated, 
Chapter 6 of the Companies Act applies, subject to this  section and with the necessary changes, in 
relation to an insurer or a controlling  company, to the exclusion of  any similar provisions under the Co -
operatives Act or any  other law under which an insurer or controlling company is established or 
incorporated,  and in such application the Prudential Authority must be deemed to be an affected  person.  
 
(2) In the applica tion of Chapter 6 of the Companies Act — 
 
(a) a reference to the Commission must be construed as a reference also to the  Prudential Authority;  
 
(b) the reference to creditors must be construed as a reference also to the  policyholders of the 
insurer;  
(c) a reference relating to the inability of an insurer or a controlling company to  pay all its debts, must 
be construed as relating also to its inability to comply  with the financial soundness requirements 
of this Act; and  
 
(d) in addition to any question relat ing to the business of an insurer, it must be  considered if any 
proposed action is in the interests of policyholders of an  insurer or, in the case of a controlling 
company, the interests of policyholders  of the insurers that are part of the insurance group.
#\ 
 
#\
56.  Business rescue applications and resolutions  
 
(1) The Prudential Authority may make an application under section 131 of the  Companies Act in respect 
of an insurer or a controlling company, if the Prudential  Authority reasonably believes that it is i n the 
interests of the insurer ’s policyholders or,  in the case of a controlling company, the interests of 
policyholders of the insurers that  are part of the insurance group to do so.  
 
(2)  
(a) If an application to a court for an order relating to the busin ess rescue of an  insurer or a controlling 
company is made by an affected person other than the Prudential  Authority — 
 
(i) it shall not be heard unless copies of the notice of motion and of all  accompanying affidavits 
and other documents filed in support of  the application  have been lodged with the 
Prudential Authority at least 14 days before the  application is set down for hearing;  
 
(ii) the Prudential Authority may, if the Prudential Authority reasonably believes  that the 
application is not in the interest s of policyholders of the insurer, or, in the  case of a 
controlling company, the interests of policyholders of the insurers that  are part of the 
insurance group, join the application as a party and file affidavits  and other documents in 
opposition to the a pplication.  
 
(b) The court may only grant an order relating to the business rescue of an insurer or  a controlling 
company if the Prudential Authority has been notified of the application as  required in paragraph 
(a)(i).  
 
(3)  
(a) Any resolution of an insur er or a controlling company to begin business rescue  proceedings is 
subject to the approval of the Prudential Authority.  
 
(b) An insurer or a controlling company may file a resolution under section 129 of the  Companies Act 
only after the Prudential Authori ty has approved the resolution.  
(c) The Prudential Authority must grant or refuse an application for approval of a  resolution within 14 
days of the date on which the application was submitted to the  Prudential Authority, or such longer 
period agreed betwe en the Prudential Authority and  the applicant.  
 
(d) If the Prudential Authority requested additional information in terms of section  60(4)(a)(i), then the 
period between the date on which the additional information was  requested and when the 
information wa s provided to the Prudential Authority is not  considered when determining the 14 
days referred to in paragraph (c).  
 
(e) Any resolution of an insurer or a controlling company that is not approved by the  Prudential 
Authority under paragraphs (a ) or (b), is void.  
 
(4) Despite the provisions of the Companies Act, the following acts are subject to the  approval of the 
Prudential Authority:  
 
(a) The appointment of a business rescue practitioner; and  
 
(b) the adoption of a business rescue plan.  
 
(5) Despite the pr ovisions of the Companies Act, if the Prudential Authority does not  approve a resolution 
referred to in subsection (3)(a ) or (b), or the appointment or plan  referred to in subsection (4)(a ) or (b), 
the Prudential Authority must apply to court — 
 
(a) for the  winding -up of the insurer or controlling company under section 58; or  
 
(b) to place the insurer or controlling company under curatorship in terms of  section 54.  
 
(6) As from the date on which a business rescue practitioner is appointed, the business  rescu e practitioner 
of an insurer may not enter into any new insurance policies with  policyholders or insurance policies with 
new policyholders, unless the practitioner has  been granted prior approval to do so by the Prudential 
Authority.
#\  
 
Part 4  
Winding -up 
#\ 
57. Application of Companies Act to winding -up of insurers and controlling companies  
 
(1) Despite any other law under which an insurer is incorporated, sections 79 to 81  of, and item 9 of 
Schedule 5 to, the Companies Act shall, subject to this section and wi th the necessary changes, apply 
in relation to the winding -up of an insurer or a controlling  company, and to the exclusion of any similar 
provisions under the Co -operatives Act or  any other law under which an insurer or controlling company Page 71 of 148  
 
 
Prepared by:  is established o r incorporated, and in such application the Prudential Authority is deemed to be a person  
authorised under the Companies Act to make an application to the court for the  winding -up thereof.  
 
(2) In the application of sections 79 to 81 of, and item 9 of Sche dule 5 to, the  Companies Act as provided 
by subsection (1) — 
 
(a) a reference which relates to the inability of an insurer or a controlling  company to pay its debts 
must be construed as relating also to its inability to  comply with the financial soundness 
requirements of this Act;  
 
(b) a reference to an insurer or a controlling company in this section and section  58 must, for the 
purposes of the application of sections 79, 80 and 81 of the  Companies Act, be construed as a 
reference to a financially sound ins urer or  a financially sound controlling company;  
 
(c) in addition to any question whether it is just and equitable that an insurer or a  controlling company 
should be wound -up, there must be considered also the  question whether it is in the interest of 
the policyholders of an insurer or, in the  case of a controlling company, the interests of 
policyholders of the insurers  that are part of the insurance group that it should be wound -up;  
 
(d) the references to the Commissioner, Commission, Master or Panel must be construed as a 
reference also to the Prudential Authority; and  
 
(e) the requirement to give security does not apply where the Prudential Authority  makes the 
application to court.
#\
  
#\ 
58.  Winding -up applications and resolutions  
 
(1) The Prudential Authority  may make an application under the Companies Act  for the winding -up of an 
insurer or a controlling company, if the Prudential Authority  reasonably believes that it is in the interests 
of the policyholders of that insurer or, in the  case of a controlling co mpany, it is in the interests of 
policyholders of the insurers that  are part of the insurance group to do so.  
 
(2)  
(a) If an application to the court for or in respect of the winding -up of an insurer  or a controlling 
company is made by any person other th an the Prudential Authority — 
 
(i) the application may not be heard unless copies of the notice of motion and of all  
accompanying affidavits and other documents filed in support of the application  are lodged 
with the Prudential Authority at least 14 days, o r such shorter period  as the court may allow 
on good cause shown, before the application is set down  for hearing; and  
(ii) the Prudential Authority may, if the Prudential Authority reasonably believes  that the 
application is contrary to the interests of t he policyholders of the insurer  concerned or, in 
the case of a controlling company, the interests of policyholders  of the insurers that are 
part of the insurance group, join the application as a party  and file affidavits and other 
documents in opposition t o the application.   
 
(b) The court may only grant an order relating to the winding -up of an insurer or a  controlling company 
if the Prudential Authority has been notified of the application as  required in paragraph (a)(i).  
 
(3)  
(a) Any resolution of an in surer or a controlling company to begin winding -up proceedings is subject 
to the approval of the Prudential Authority.  
 
(b) An insurer or a controlling company may file a resolution under section 80 of the  Companies Act 
only after the Prudential Authority has approved the resolution.  
 
(c) The Prudential Authority must grant or refuse an application for approval of a  resolution within 14 
days of the date on which the application was submitted to the  Prudential Authority, or such longer 
period agreed between the Prudential Authority and  the applicant.  
 
(d) If the Prudential Authority requested additional information in terms of section  60(4)(a)(i), then the 
period between the date on which the additional information was  requested and when the 
information was p rovided to the Prudential Authority is not  considered when determining the 14 
days referred to in paragraph (c).  
 
(e) Any resolution of an insurer or a controlling company that is not approved by the  Prudential 
Authority under paragraph (a ) or (b ) is void.  
 
(4) Despite the provisions of the Companies Act, the appointment of a trustee or a  liquidator is subject to 
the approval of the Prudential Authority.  
 
(5) Despite the provisions of the Companies Act, if the Prudential Authority does not  approve a resolut ion 
referred to in subsection (3)(a ) or (b), or the appointment referred  to in subsection (4), the Prudential 
Authority may apply to court to place that person  under curatorship in terms of the Financial Institutions 
(Protection of Funds ) Act.
#\  
 
#\
59.  Winding -up of trusts referred to in section 41  
 
(1)  
(a) Despite the Trust Property Control Act, 1988 (Act No. 57 of 1988), item 9  of Schedule 5 to the 
Companies Act shall, subject to this section and with the necessary  changes, apply in relation to 
the winding -up of a trust referred to in section 41, to the  exclusion of Trust Property Control Act, 
1988, and in such application the Prudential  Authority is deemed to be the person authorised 
under the Companies Act to make an  application to the court for the winding -up thereof.  
 
(b) The Prudential Authority may make an application under the Companies Act for  the winding -up 
of a trust referred to in section 41, if the Prudential Authority reasonably  believes that it is in the 
interests of the policyholders of a branch  of a foreign reinsurer  or Lloyd ’s underwriters to do so.  
 
(c) If an application to the court for or in respect of the winding -up of a trust referred  to in section 41 
is made by any person other than the Prudential Authority — 
 
(i) the application may not b e heard unless copies of the notice of motion and of all  
accompanying affidavits and other documents filed in support of the application  are lodged 
with the Prudential Authority at least 14 days, or such shorter period  as the court may allow 
on good cause shown, before the application is set down  for hearing; and  
 
(ii) the Prudential Authority may, if the Prudential Authority reasonably believes  that the 
application is contrary to the interests of the policyholders of the branch  of a foreign 
reinsurer or Ll oyd ’s underwriters concerned, join the application as  a party and file affidavits 
and other documents in opposition to the application.  
 
(d) The court may only grant an order relating to the business rescue of an insurer or  a controlling 
company if the Pru dential Authority has been notified of the application as  required in paragraph 
(c)(i).  
 
(2)  
(a) Any decision of a trustee or any other person to dissolve a trust referred to in  section 41, must be 
approved by the Prudential Authority.  
 
(b) Any decision r eferred to in paragraph (a ) not approved by the Prudential Authority  is void.
#\  
 
CHAPTER 10  
ADMINISTRATION OF ACT  
 
Part 1  
Applications and notifications  
#\ 
60.  Applications  
 
(1) A written application must be submitted to the Prudential Authority — 
 
(a) in respe ct of an application for the granting of a licence under this Act;  
 Page 74 of 148  
 
 
Prepared by:  (b) in respect of any other application for approval under this Act;  
 
(c) if any determination, decision, exemption or the performance of any other act  is required by the 
Prudential Author ity under this Act.  
 
(2) A written application referred to in subsection (1 ) must be — 
 
(a) submitted in the form and manner determined by the Prudential Authority;  
 
(b) accompanied by the information determined by the Prudential Authority; and  
 
(c) accompa nied by the prescribed fees.  
 
(3) A person must promptly amend an application referred to under subsection (1 ) if any information 
provided to the Prudential Authority on application becomes inaccurate  prior to the Prudential Authority 
approving or declinin g an application.  
 
(4) The Prudential Authority, in respect of any application referred to in subsection  (1)— 
 
(a) may — 
 
(i) require a person to furnish additional information, to verify that  information, or verify any 
information that accompanied the appl ication,  in the manner specified by the Prudential 
Authority; and  
 
(ii) take into consideration any other information, derived from whatever  source, including 
another regulatory authority;  
 
(b) must, after considering the application — 
 
(i) grant the applic ation, if the Prudential Authority reasonably believes that  the person 
complies with the requirements for that application; or  
 
(ii) refuse the application, if the Prudential Authority reasonably believes  that the person does 
not comply with the requiremen ts for that  application; and  
 
(c) where an application is refused, must notify the applicant of the refusal.  
 
(5) The Prudential Authority may grant any application subject to any conditions  necessary to achieve the 
objective of this Act.  
(6) If the Prude ntial Authority under subsection (4)(a)(i ) required a person to furnish  additional information 
or required a person to verify any information the Prudential  Authority need not deal further with an 
application, until the person has furnished or  verified the  information.
#\  
 
#\
61.  Notifications  
 
Any notification by a person under this Act must be — 
 
(a) submitted in the form and manner determined by the Prudential Authority;  and  
 
(b) accompanied by the information determined by the Prudential Authority.  
 
Part 2  
Pow ers and functions of Prudential Authority  
 
62.  General powers, functions and duties of Prudential Authority  
 
(1) The Prudential Authority, in addition to other powers or functions conferred on  the Prudential Authority 
by or in terms of any other provision of this Act or any other Act  of Parliament — 
 
(a) must take steps the Prudential Authority considers necessary to implement a  regulatory 
framework that supports the objectives of the Act, including  supervising and enforcing compliance 
with this Act;  
 
(b) mu st take steps the Prudential Authority considers necessary to protect  policyholders in their 
dealings with insurers;  
 
(c) must determine the form, manner and period (if a period is not specified in this  Act ) in which any 
documentation, information or repor t must be published,  disclosed, provided or submitted, that 
an insurer or a controlling company is  required to publish, disclose, provide or submit under this 
Act; and   
 
(d) may, at regular intervals, determine or amend any rate, parameter or  percentage re ferred to or 
specified in this Act or a Prudential Standard relating  to financial soundness by publishing a notice 
on the official website.  
 
(2) Any approval, determination, designation, decision or exemption by the  Prudential Authority is valid only 
if it is in writing.  
 
(3)(a) The Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, 2000 (Act No. 3 of 2000),  applies to any approval, 
determination, designation, decision, exemption or other  administrative action taken by the 
Prudential Authority in terms of this Act.  
 
(b) Without detracting from section 3(3 ) and (4 ) of the Promotion of Administrative  Justice Act, 2000, 
and despite section 3(5 ) of that Act, the Prudential Authority must  before acting under section 12, 
also give the juristic persons that are part of tha t insurance group that are affected notice of the 
proposed designation and a statement of  the purpose of and the reasons for the proposed action.  
 
(4) The Prudential Authority when taking administrative actions, must, in addition to  specific matters for 
consideration specified elsewhere in this Act, have regard to — 
 
(a) the objective of this Act;  
 
(b) the nature, scale and complexity of the business of an insurer or an insurance  group;  
 
(c) developmental, financial inclusion, and transformation objectives;  
 
(d) any submissions made; and  
 
(e) in the case of an insurance group also — 
 
(i) the financial soundness of an insurer that is part of the insurance group;  
 
(ii) how the different types of business of the insurance group are conducted;  
 
(iii) the risks of the insurance group and each juristic person that is part of that  insurance group; 
and  
 
(iv) the manner in which the governance framework is organised and  conducted for the 
insurance group and each juristic person that is part of  that insurance group.
#\
  
#\ 
63.  Prudential Standards  
 
(1)  
(a) The Prudential Authority may prescribe Prudential Standards on any matter  that is required or 
permitted to be prescribed in terms of this Act.  
 
(b) An insurer must comply with prudential standards that apply to that insurer.  
 
(2) The Prudential Authority when making of Prudential Standards, must have regard  to— 
(a) the objective of this Act;  
 
(b) the interests of policyholders;  
 
(c) international regulatory and supervisory standards, to the extent practicable  and with due 
consideration to the South African context;  
 
(d) developmental, financial inclusion, and transformation objectives; and   
 
(e) the nature, scale and complexity of different kinds or types of insurers and  controlling companies.  
 
(3) A Prudential Standard may — 
 
(a) apply to insurers, controlling companies, key persons or significant owners  generally;  
 
(b) apply to insurance business or the conducting of insurance business generally;  or 
 
(c) be limited in application to particular kinds or types of insurers, cont rolling  companies, key persons 
or significant owners, or to particular types, or classes  or sub -classes of insurance business, 
which may be defined — 
 
(i) in relation to insurers, insurance groups, key persons or significant  owners, either in relation 
to a category, kind or in any other manner; and  
 
(ii) in relation to insurance groups, either in relation to a category, kind or  with reference to the 
business of the insurance groups or in any other  manner.  
 
(4)  
(a) A Prudential Standard may — 
 
(i) impose requ irements for approval by the Prudential Authority in respect of  specified 
matters; or  
 
(ii) be made applicable to existing actions, activities, transactions, policies and  appointments.  
 
(b) Where a Prudential Standard is made applicable to existing actions , activities,  transactions, 
policies and appointments, the Prudential Standard must allow for a  reasonable period within 
which the Prudential Standard must be complied with.  
 
(5) A Prudential Standard referred to in section 47(5 ) with respect to auditing  standards and requirements, 
applies despite any contrary requirement in Regulations or  an instrument made under an Act of 
Parliament.  
#\

#\   
64.  Publication by Prudential Authority  
 
The Prudential Authority must publish and regularly update the following on the  official website:  
 
(a) The objectives of supervision and the Prudential Authority ’s powers and  functions;  
 
(b) the general criteria and methods used in the supervisory review process;  
 
(c) aggregate statistical data on key aspects of the application of the financial  soundness and 
prudential framework referred to in Chapter 6;  
 
(d) information and analysis about the financial condition of the insurance sector;  and  
 
(e) subject to confidentiality considerations, and in so far as it does not jeopardise  other su pervisory 
objectives, information on — 
 
(i) failed insurers, controlling companies or insurance groups;  
 
(ii) supervisory and regulatory actions taken in respect of insurers or  controlling companies.
#\  
 
#\
65.  Determination of another jurisdiction as equivalent  
 
(1) The Prudential Authority may by notice on the official website determine that  the requirements imposed 
by a foreign jurisdiction are equivalent to this Act if the  Prudential Authority is satisfied that the laws, and 
supervisory and information sharing  frameworks, established in that foreign jurisdiction meet the objects 
of this Act.  
 
(2) The Prudential Authority may amend or repeal any determination under  subsection (1 ) from time to time.
#\  
 
#\
66.  Exemptions  
 
(1) The Prudential Authority may exempt any ins urer or a controlling company  from, or in respect of, a 
provision of this Act for a period and on conditions determined  by the Prudential Authority — 
 
(a) if practicalities impede the strict application of a specific provision of this Act;  
 
(b) if a strict application of a specific provision of this Act is not proportional to  the nature, scale and 
complexity of the business of an insurer or an insurance  group;  
(c) for developmental, financial inclusion and transformation objectives necessary  to facilitate t he 
progressive or incremental compliance of this Act by a  specific insurer, including meeting the 
targets envisaged by the Financial  Sector Code; and  
 
(d) if the granting of the exemption will not — 
 
(i) conflict with the public interest or prejudice policy holders; or  
 
(ii) undermine the achievement of the objective of this Act.  
 
(2) Any exemption may apply to insurers or controlling companies generally or be  limited in its application 
to particular kinds or types of insurers or controlling  companies, which may be defined either in relation 
to a category, kind, size or in any  other manner.  
 
(3) Any exemption may be granted subject to any conditions specified by the  Prudential Authority.  
 
(4) Any exemption in respect of which an insurer or controlling company has to  comply with conditions, 
lapses whenever the insurer or controlling company contravenes  or fails to comply with any such 
conditions.  
 
(5) The Prudential Authority — 
 
(a) must publish an exemption on the official website;  
 
(b) may, at any time, by noti ce to the insurer or controlling company and on the  official website 
withdraw any exemption, wholly or in part and on any ground  which the Prudential Authority 
determines sufficient.
#\  
 
#\
67.  Unlicensed insurance business  
 
(1) If a person contravened or is con travening section 5(1 ) of this Act, the  Prudential Authority, in addition 
to any other action that the Prudential Authority may  take under this Act or the Financial Sector 
Regulation Act, may — 
 
(a) direct that person to make arrangements satisfactory to th e Prudential  Authority to discharge all 
or any part of the obligations under insurance  policies entered into or purported to be entered into 
by that person; or  
 
(b) apply to the court for the sequestration or liquidation of that person, whether  he, she or it is solvent 
or not, in accordance with the Insolvency Act, 1936 (Act  No. 24 of 1936), the Companies Act, the 
Co-operatives Act or the law under  which that person is established or incorporated.  
(2) In deciding an application contemplated in paragraph (1 )(b), the court — 
 
(a) may take into account whether the sequestration or liquidation of the person  concerned would be 
in the interests of the policyholders concerned;  
 
(b) may make an order concerning the manner in which claims may be proven by  policyholde rs; and  
 
(c) must appoint as trustee or liquidator a person nominated by the Prudential  Authority.
#\
  
#\ 
68.  Penalties for non -submission or late submission  
 
(1) A person who fails to — 
 
(a) submit any document or information required in or under this Act to be  submitted to the Prudential 
Authority;  
 
(b) publish any document or information required in or under this Act to be  published; or  
 
(c) submit or publish any document or information referred to in paragraph (a ) or (b) within the 
specified period,  
 
is liable  to a penalty not exceeding R5 000 for every day during which the failure  continues, unless the 
Prudential Authority, on good cause shown, waives the penalty or  any part thereof.  
 
(2) The amount referred to in subsection escalates annually, from the effect ive date of  this Act, by the 
Consumer Price Index (CPI ) annual inflation rate published by Statistics  South Africa, as defined in 
section 1 of the Statistics Act, 1999 (Act No. 6 of 1999).
#\  
 
#\
69.  Offences  
 
(1) Any person commits an offence and is on convicti on liable to a fine not  exceeding R10 million if that 
person — 
 
(a) contravenes or fails to comply with a provision of section 5(1), 10 or 29(2 ) or 29(3); or  
 
(b) fails to comply with a request under section 43(2).  
 
(2) A holding company of or another juris tic person designated under subsection  10(1 ) commits an offence 
and is on conviction liable to a fine not exceeding R50 million  if that holding company of or another 
juristic person contravenes or fails to comply with  a provision of section 10(2).  
(3) A k ey person commits an offence and is on conviction liable to a fine not  exceeding R10 million if that 
person contravenes or fails to comply with a provision of  section 16(4).  
 
(4) An auditor commits an offence and is on conviction liable to a fine not excee ding  R10 million if that 
auditor contravenes or fails to comply with a provision of section  16(5), 32(4), 32(5 ) or 32(6).  
 
(5) A significant owner commits an offence and is on conviction liable to a fine not  exceeding R50 million if 
that owner fails to com ply with a directive issued under section  17(4).  
 
(6) An insurer commits an offence and is on conviction liable to a fine not exceeding  R50 million if that 
insurer fails to comply with a directive issued under section 29(4).
#\  
 
CHAPTER 11  
GENERAL PROVISIONS  

#\ 
70.  Regulations relating to certain classes of insurance business set out in Schedule 2  
 
(1) The Minister, despite the definition of “business of a medical scheme ” in section 1(1 ) of the Medical 
Schemes Act, 1998 (Act No. 131 of 1998), may make  regulation s identifying a kind, type or category of 
contract as an insurance policy that  may be entered into under the — 
 
(a) risk class of life insurance business in Table 1 of Schedule 2;  
 
(b) accident and health class of non -life insurance business in Table 2 of S chedule  2; or  
 
(c) the travel class of non -life insurance business in Table 2 of Schedule 2.  
 
(2) Regulations under subsection (1) — 
 
(a) must be made only — 
 
(i) in consultation with the Minister of Health;  
 
(ii) after consultation between the National Trea sury, the Prudential Authority  and the Registrar 
of Medical Schemes established under the Medical  Schemes Act, 1998; and  
 
(iii) after having regard to the objectives and purpose of the Medical Schemes  Act, 1998, 
including the principles of community rating , open enrolment  and cross -subsidisation within 
medical schemes entrenched therein;  
(b) must provide for insurers to submit specified information on any product  within a kind, type or 
category of contract referred to in subsection (1 ) to the  Prudential Au thority and the Registrar of 
Medical Schemes within any  specified timeframes; and  
 
(c) may provide for matters relating to the design and marketing of any product  within a kind, type or 
category of contract referred to in subsection (1).  
 
(3) Where the Min ister has made regulations referred to in subsection (1), the kind,  type or category of 
contract identified in the regulations as an insurance policy that may  be entered into under the classes 
referred to in subsection (1), is subject to this Act and  not t he Medical Schemes Act, 1998.  
 
(4) Before regulations in terms of this section are promulgated, the Minister must — 
 
(a) publish notice of the release of the draft regulations in the Gazette , indicating  that the draft 
regulations are available on the offici al website and calling for  public comment in writing within a 
period stated in the notice, which period  may not be less than 30 days from the date of publication 
of the notice; and  
 
(b) submit the draft regulations to Parliament, while it is in session, fo r parliamentary scrutiny at least 
one month before their promulgation.
#\  

#\ 
71.  Special exemption of certain insurers  
 
(1) The following persons are exempt from section 22(1)(a)(iii ) of this Act:  
 
(a) A mutual association licensed under section 30(1 ) of the Co mpensation for  Occupational Injuries 
and Diseases, 1998 (Act No. 130 of 1998), at the date  on which this Act comes into operation for 
as long as it remains so licensed;  
 
(b) the AVBOB Mutual Assurance Society established in terms of the AVBOB  Mutual Assura nce 
Society Incorporation (Private ) Act, 1951 (Act No. 7 of  1951);  
 
(c) the Attorney Insurance Fidelity Fund NPC (registration number 1993/03588/08 ) for as long as it 
remains registered as a non -profit company under the  Companies Act; and  
 
(d) the Home Loa n Guarantee Company NPC (registration number 1990/001845/08 ) for as long as 
it remains registered as a non -profit company under the  Companies Act.  
 
(2) Any state -owned company licensed to conduct insurance business under the  Long -term Insurance Act, 
1998, or the Short -term Insurance Act, 1998, at the  commencement date of this Act is exempt from 
section 22(1)(e).
#\

#\  
72.  Consequential amendments and transitional arrangements  
 
(1) The Acts referred to in Schedule 1 are hereby amended in the manner set out  in tha t Schedule.  
 
(2) The amendment of the Acts does not affect the transitional arrangements, which  are set out in Schedule 
3. 
#\

#\
73.  Short title and commencement  
 
(1) This Act is called the Insurance Act, 2017, and comes into operation on a date  fixed by the Mi nister by 
proclamation in the Gazette . 
 
(2) The Minister may set different dates for different provisions of this Act to come  into operation.
#\
 
#\ 
SCHEDULE 1  
LAWS AMENDED  
 
No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
9 of 2017  Financial Secto r 
Regulation Act  1.  The amendment of section 1 — 
 
(a) by the substitution for paragraph (b) of the definition of 
“eligible financial  institution ” of the following  
paragraph:  
 
“(b) a financial institution registered  as a long -term 
insurer  in terms of the Lo ng-term  Insurance Act 
or a short -term  insurer in terms of the  Short -
term Insurance Act or  licensed or required to be  
licensed in terms of the Insurance  Act; ”; and  
 
(b) by the insertion after the definition  of “industry ombud 
scheme ” of the  following defini tion:  
 
““Insurance Act ” means the  Insurance Act, 2017 (Act 
No. 18  of 2017); ”. 
 
2.  The amendment of section 2 — 
 
(a) by the substitution in subsection (1)  for paragraph (b) 
of the following  paragraph:  
No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
“(b) a long -term policy as defined  in section 1(1 ) of 
the Long -term Insurance Act or  a life insurance 
policy as  defined in section 1 of the  Insurance 
Act; ”; and  
 
(b) by the substitution in subsection (1)  for paragraph (c) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(c) a short -term policy as defined  in section 1(1 ) of 
the Short -term Insurance Act or  a non -life 
insurance policy  as defined in section 1 of  the 
Insurance Act; ”. 
 
3.  The amendment of Schedule 1  by the insertion in the 
next row after  “Credit Rating Services Act, 2012  (Act 
No. 24 of 2012) ” of the following:  
 
“Insur ance Act, 2017 (Act No. 18  of 2017) ”. 
 
4.  The amendment of Schedule 2 — 
 
(a) by the insertion after the “Credit  Rating Services Act, 
2012  (Act No. 24 of 2012) ” row of  the following row:  
 
Insurance Act, 2017   Prudential   
(Act No. 18 of 2017 )   Authority  
 
(b) by the amendment of the row following  the “Insurance 
Act (Act  No. 18 of 2017) ” row as follows:  
 
[the] Long -term     Financial  
Insurance Act, 1998    Sector  
(Act No. 52 of     Conduct  
1998 ) and the     Authority  
Short -term  
Insurance Act, 1998  
(Act No. 53 of  
1998 ) [, so far as  
they relate to  
matters within the  
objectives of —   
No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
(a) the Prudential    [Prudential  
 Authority     Authority  
(b) the Financial    Financial  
 Sector Conduct    Sector Conduct  
 Authority]     Authority]  
52 of 1998  Long -term  
Insurance Act  1.  The substitution of all references  in this Act to 
“Registrar ” with  “Authority ”. 
 
2.  The substitution for section 1 of  the following section:  
 
“Definitions  
 
1.(1) In this Act, unless the context  otherwise 
indicates — 
 
“assistance policy ” means a life  poli cy in 
respect of which the aggregate  of— 
 
(a) the value of the policy benefits,  other 
than an annuity, to be provided  (not 
taking into account  any bonuses to be 
determined in  the discretion of the long -
term  insurer); and  
 
(b) the amount of the premium in  return for 
which an annuity is to  be provided,  
 
does not exceed R30 000, or another  amount 
prescribed by the Minister;  and includes a 
reinsurance policy in  respect of such a policy;  
 
“Authority ” means the Financial  Sector 
Conduct Authority established  by th e Financial 
Sector Regulation  Act;  
 
“conduct standard ” has the same  meaning 
ascribed to it in terms of  section 1(1 ) of the 
Financial Sector  Regulation Act;  
 Page 86 of 148  
 
 
Prepared by:  No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
“disability event ” means the event  of the 
functional ability of the mind  or body of a person 
or an unborn  becoming impaired;  
 
“disability policy ” means a contract  in terms 
of which a person, in  return for a premium, 
undertakes to  provide policy benefits upon a 
disability  event; and includes a  reinsurance 
policy in respect of such  a contract;  
 
“Financial  Sector Regulation Act ” means the 
Financial Sector Regulation  Act, 2017;  
 
“fund” means — 
 
(a) a friendly society as defined in  section 1 
of the Friendly Societies  Act, 1956 (Act 
No. 25 of  1956);  
 
(b) a pension fund organization as  defined in 
section 1 of th e Pension  Funds Act, 1956 
(Act No.  24 of 1956);  
 
(c) a medical scheme as defined in  section 1 
of the Medical  Schemes Act; and  
 
(d) any other person, arrangement  or 
business prescribed by the  Authority;  
 
“fund policy ” means a contract in  terms of 
which a pe rson, in return  for a premium, 
undertakes to provide  policy benefits for the 
purpose  of funding in whole or in part the  liability 
of a fund to provide benefits  to its members in 
terms of its rules,  other than such a contract 
relating  exclusively to a parti cular member  of 
the fund or to the surviving  spouse, children, 
dependants or  nominees of a particular 
member of  the fund; and includes a reinsurance  
policy in respect of such a contract;  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
“health event ” means an event  relating to the 
health of the mind or  body of a person or an 
unborn;  
 
“health policy ” means a contract in  terms of 
which a person, in return  for a premium, 
undertakes to provide  policy benefits upon a 
health  event, and includes a reinsurance  policy 
in respect of such a contract — 
 
(a) excluding  any contract — 
 
(i) that provides for the conducting  of 
the business of a  medical scheme 
referred to  in section 1(1 ) of the 
Medical  Schemes Act; or  
 
(ii) of which the policyholder is  a 
medical scheme registered  under 
the Medical Schemes  Act, and 
which cont ract — 
 
(aa ) relates to a particular  
member of the scheme  or to 
the beneficiaries  of that 
member; and  
 
(bb ) is entered into by the  
medical scheme to  fund in 
whole or in  part its liability to 
the member or the 
beneficiaries  of the member  
referred to in subpa ragraph  
(aa ) in terms of  its rules; but  
 
(b) specifically including, notwithstanding  
paragraph (a)(i), any  contracts identified 
by the Minister  by regulation under 
section  72(2A ) as a health policy;  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
“independent intermediary ” has  the meaning 
as prescribed  in the  regulations;  
 
“Insurance Act ” means the Insurance  Act, 
2017;  
 
“joint standard ” has the same  meaning 
ascribed to it in terms of  section 1(1 ) of the 
Financial Sector  Regulation Act;  
 
“licensed insurer ” means — 
 
(a) a previously registered insurer  as d efined 
in Item 1 of Schedule  3 to the Insurance 
Act who has  been granted a licence 
under  section 23 of the Insurance Act  
within the period referred to in  item 6(2 ) 
of Schedule 3 to the  Insurance Act; or  
 
(b) a person who has been licensed  under 
section 23 of the Insurance  Act after the 
date on which  that Act commenced;  
 
“life event ” means the event of the  life of a 
person or an unborn — 
 
(a) having begun;  
 
(b) continuing;  
 
(c) having continued for a period;  or 
 
(d) having ended;  
 
“life insured ” means the per son or  unborn to 
whose life, or to the functional  ability or health 
of whose  mind or body, a long -term policy  
relates;  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
“life policy ” means a contract in  terms of which 
a person, in return  for a premium, undertakes 
to— 
 
(a) provide policy benefits upon,  and 
exclusively as a result of, a  life event; or  
 
(b) pay an annuity for a period;   
 
and includes a reinsurance policy in  respect of 
such a contract;  
 
“long -term insurance business ” means — 
 
(a) in respect of a registered insurer,  the 
business of providing or  undertaking to 
provide policy  benefits under long -term 
policies;  
 
(b) in respect of a licensed insurer,  life 
insurance business as defined  in section 
1 of the Insurance  Act;  
 
“long -term insurer ” means a registered  
insurer or a licensed insurer ; 
 
“long -term policy ” means — 
 
(a) in respect of a registered insurer,  an 
assistance policy, a  disability policy, fund 
policy,  health policy, life policy or sinking  
fund policy, or a contract  comprising a 
combination of  any of those policies; and 
includes  a contract wh ereby any  such 
contract is varied;  
 
(b) in respect of a licensed insurer,  a life 
insurance policy as defined  in section 1 
of the Insurance  Act;  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
“Medical Schemes Act ” means the  Medical 
Schemes Act, 1998 (Act  No. 131 of 1998);  
 
“Minister ” means the Cabinet  member 
responsible for finance;  
 
“official website ” means a website  of the 
Authority;  
 
“policy benefits ” means — 
 
(a) in respect of a registered insurer,  one or 
more sums of  money, services or other 
benefits,  including an annuity;  
 
(b) in respect of a licen sed insurer,  benefits 
to which a person is  contractually entitled 
under a  life insurance policy arising  from 
an insurer ’s insurance obligations;  
 
“policyholder ” in respect of a — 
 
(a) registered insurer, means the  person 
entitled to be provided  with the pol icy 
benefits under a  long -term policy;  
 
(b) licensed insurer, has the meaning  
assigned to it in the Insurance  Act;   
 
“premium ” in respect of a — 
 
(a) registered insurer, means the  
consideration given or to be  given in 
return for an undertaking  to provide 
policy benefits;  
 
(b) licensed insurer has the meaning  
assigned to it in the Insurance  Act;  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
“Register ” means the Financial  Sector 
Information Register referred  to in section 256 
of the Financial  Sector Regulation Act;  
 
“registered insurer ” means a previousl y 
registered insurer as defined  in item 1 of 
Schedule 3 to the Insurance  Act for the period 
between the  date on which the Insurance Act  
commenced and the previously registered  
insurer ’s licence application  referred to in item 
6(2 ) of Schedule  3 to the Insu rance Act has 
been  granted or not granted;  
 
“regulation ” means a regulation  under section 
72;  
 
“reinsurance policy ” means — 
 
(a) in respect of a registered insurer,  a 
reinsurance policy in  respect of a long -
term policy;  
 
(b) in respect of a licensed insurer , a life 
insurance policy written  under the 
reinsurance class of  life insurance 
business as set out  in Table 1 of 
Schedule 2 of the  Insurance Act;  
 
“repealed Act ” means the Insurance  Act, 1943 
(Act No. 27 of  1943);  
 
“representative ” has the meaning  as 
pres cribed in the regulations;  
 
“services as intermediary ” has the  meaning 
as prescribed in the regulations;  
 
“sinking fund policy ” means a  contract, other 
than a life policy, in  terms of which a person, in 
return  for a premium, undertakes to provide  one 
or mo re sums of money, on  a fixed or 
No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
determinable future date,  as policy benefits; 
and includes a  reinsurance policy in respect of 
such  a contract;  
 
“short -term insurer ” has the  meaning 
assigned to it in the Short -term  Insurance Act, 
1998;  
 
“this Act ” includes any regulation  made, or 
matter prescribed under  this Act;  
 
“Tribunal ” means the Financial  Services 
Tribunal established in  terms of section 219 of 
the Financial  Sector Regulation Act;  
 
“unborn ” means a human foetus  conceived 
but not born.  
 
(2) For the purp oses of entering  into a long -term 
policy the life of an  unborn shall be deemed to 
begin at  conception.  
 
(3) Unless the context otherwise  indicates, words 
and expressions not  defined in subsection (1 ) 
have the  same meaning ascribed to them in  
terms of the F inancial Sector Regulation  Act or 
Insurance Act.  
 
(4) A reference to statutory actuary  in this Act must 
be construed as  a reference to the head of the 
actuarial  control function appointed by a  long -
term insurer in accordance  with the Insurance 
Act. ”. 
 
3.  The amendment of section 1A — 
 
(a) by the deletion of subsection (1);  
 
(b) by the substitution for subsection  (4) of the following 
subsection:  
No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
“(4) Unless expressly provided  otherwise in this Act, 
or this Act requires a matter to be  prescribed by 
regulatio n, a reference  in this Act to a matter  
being — 
 
(a) prescribed must be read as a  reference 
to the matter being  prescribed in a 
conduct  standard or a joint standard;  or 
 
(b) determined must be read as  a reference 
to the Authority  determining the matter in  
writing and registering the  determination 
in the Register. ”; and  
 
(c) by the substitution for subsection  (6) of the following 
subsection:  
 
“(6) The references in section  3(3 ) to an appeal to 
the board of  appeal established by section 26  of 
the Financial Serv ices Board  Act must be read 
as a reference  to a reconsideration of the 
decision  by the Tribunal in terms of  the 
Financial Sector Regulation  Act. ”. 
 
4.  The whole of sections 2(2), 2(3),  4(5), 4(7), 7, 8(1), 
8(2), 9 – 35, 37 – 43, 48, 52, 53, 56, 59, 60, 67 , 69 – 
71 and 72(2A), and Schedules 1 and 3 are  hereby 
repealed.  
 
5.  The amendment of section 3 — 
 
(a) by the substitution in subsection  (2)(b) for 
subparagraph (i ) of the  following subparagraph:  
 
“(i) the fees determined under  the Financial Sector 
Regulat ion Act; and ”; and  
 
(b) by the substitution for subsection  (4) of the following 
subsection:  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
“(4) A person may, upon payment  of any fees 
determined  under the Financial Sector  
Regulation Act , inspect only  those documents 
determined by  the Authority by notic e on the  
official website, which are held  by the Authority 
under this Act  in relation to a long -term insurer  
or an intermediary, or obtain a  copy of or extract 
from any  such document. ”. 
 
6.  The amendment of section 8 — 
 
(a) by the substitution of the headi ng of the section for the 
following  heading:  
 
“Prohibition on performance of  certain acts, by 
certain persons ”; 
 
(b) by the substitution for subsection 3  of the following 
subsection:  
 
“(3) Subject to this Act, no  person shall render 
services as  intermediar y, in relation to a  long -
term policy, unless — 
 
(a) long -term insurers are the  only 
underwriters in terms  of the long -term 
policy concerned;  or 
 
(b) that person does so with the  approval of 
the Authority. ”; and  
 
(c) by the insertion after subsection  (3) of the following 
subsections:  
 
“(4) The Authority may from  time to time by notice 
on the  official website or, in the case  of any 
particular person, by notice  to such person, 
subject to  such conditions as the Authority  
determines — 
No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
(a) and specifies in the not ice,  grant to 
persons generally or  to any particular 
person or  category of persons the 
approval  contemplated in subsection  
(3)(b) to such extent  as may be specified 
by the  Authority in the notice; and  
 
(b) at any time withdraw or  amend any such 
approval to  such extent as may be 
determined  by the Authority.  
 
(5) Subsection (3 ) shall not  apply in the case of a 
long -term  reinsurance policy unless and to  the 
extent that the Authority so  determines by 
notice in the Gazette .”. 
 
7.  The substitution of the heading  of Part IV for the 
following:  
 
“RETURNS TO AUTHORITY ”. 
 
8.  The amendment of section 36 — 
 
(a) by the substitution in subsection  (1) for the words 
following paragraph  (c) of the following words:  
 
“determined by the Authority  by notice on the official 
websi te, either generally or in relation to  a particular 
insurer. ”; and  
 
(b) by the substitution in subsection  (2) for the words 
preceding paragraph  (a) of the following words:  
 
“If the Authority is satisfied that  a return furnished to it 
in terms  of subsection  (1) is incomplete  or incorrect, it 
may, by  notice —”. 
 
9.  The substitution for section 45 of  the following section:  
 
“Prohibition on inducements  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
45.(1) Unless done in accordance  with the rules 
prescribed under section  62, no person shall 
provide, or  offe r to provide, directly or indirectly,  
any valuable consideration as  an inducement to 
a person to enter  into, continue, vary or cancel 
a long -term policy.  
 
(2) Subsection (1 ) shall not apply  in the case of a 
long -term  reinsurance policy unless and to the  
extent that the Authority so determines  by 
notice in the Gazette .”. 
 
10.  The insertion after section 47 of  the following section:  
 
“Collection of premiums by  intermediaries  
 
47A. (1) No independent intermediary  shall receive, 
hold or in any  other manner deal  with premiums  
payable under a long -term policy  entered into or 
to be entered into  with a long -term insurer and 
no such long -term insurer shall permit  such 
independent intermediary to so  receive, hold or 
in any other manner  deal with such premiums — 
 
(a) unless authorised to do so by  the long -
term insurer concerned  as prescribed by 
regulation; and  
 
(b) otherwise than in accordance  with the 
regulations.  
 
(2) Subsection (1 ) shall not apply  in the case of a long -
term  reinsurance policy unless and to the  extent that 
the Authority so determines  by notice in the Gazette .”. 
 
11.  The substitution for section 49  of the following section:  
 
“Limitation of remuneration  
 
49. No consideration shall be — 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
(a) offered or provided by a long -term  insurer or a 
person on behalf  of a long -term insurer to an  
independent intermediary or any  other person; 
or 
 
(b) accepted by an independent intermediary  or 
other person,  for rendering services referred  to 
in the regulations, other than  commission or 
remuneration  contemplated in the reg ulations  
and otherwise than in accordance  with the 
regulations. ”. 
 
12.  The amendment of section  49A — 
 
(a) by the substitution for subsection  (1) of the following 
subsection:  
 
“(1) A long -term insurer may  in terms of a written 
agreement  only, and in accord ance with  any 
requirements, limitations or  prohibitions that 
may be prescribed  by regulation, allow  another 
person to do any one or  more of the following 
on behalf  of that insurer:  
 
(a) Enter into, vary or renew a  long -term 
policy on behalf  of that insurer ; 
 
(b) determine the wording of a  long -term 
policy;  
 
(c) determine premiums under a  long -term 
policy;  
 
(d) determine the value of  policy benefits 
under a long -term  policy;  
 
(e) settle claims under a long -term  policy. ”; 
and  
 
(b) by the insertion after subse ction  (1) of the following 
subsection:  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
 
“(1A ) Subsection (1 ) shall  not apply in the case of a 
long -term  reinsurance policy unless  and to the 
extent that the Authority  so determines by 
notice  in the Gazette .”. 
 
13.  The substitution for section 51  of the fo llowing section:  
 
“Policy suspended until payment  of first premium  
 
51.(1) The undertaking of a long -term  insurer to 
provide policy benefits  under a long -term policy, 
shall  be suspended until the long -term  insurer 
has received, if there — 
 
(a) is to be one premium, that premium;  or 
 
(b) are to be two or more premiums,  the first 
of those premiums,  
 
or until arrangements to its satisfaction  have 
been made for the provision  of the premium by 
debit order,  stop order, credit card or other 
instrument  approved by t he Authority  generally 
by notice on the official  website.  
 
(2) Subsection (1 ) shall not apply  to— 
 
(a) a fund policy in the case of a  registered 
insurer; and  
 
(b) a life insurance policy written  under the 
fund risk class of life  insurance business 
as set o ut in  Table 1 of Schedule 2 of the  
Insurance Act in the case of a  licensed 
insurer.  
 
(3) Subsection (1 ) shall not apply  in the case of a 
long -term  reinsurance policy unless and to the  
extent that the Authority so determines  by 
notice in the Gazette .”. 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
 
14.  The amendment of section 55 by  the substitution for 
subsection (1 ) of the following subsection:  
 
“(1) A long -term insurer shall not  undertake to 
provide, or provide,  policy benefits in terms of a 
long -term  policy in the event of the death  of an 
unborn, o r of a minor before  that minor attains 
the age of 14  years, the value of which, on its  
own or when added to the value of  policy 
benefits or similar benefits  which to its 
knowledge are to be  provided in that event by a 
long -term  insurer or a short -term insu rer or a 
friendly society in terms of any  policy, exceeds, 
in the event of the  death — 
 
(a) of that unborn, or of that minor  before he 
or she attains the age  of six years, R20 
000; or  
 
(b) of that minor after he or she  attains the 
age of six years but  befor e he or she 
attains the age  of 14 years, R50 000,  
 
or such other amount prescribed by  the 
Minister: Provided that this section  shall not 
apply to or prohibit  the allocation of profit in 
respect of  such policies on the lives of minors,  
which allocation does  not exceed  the profits 
allocated to other such  policies on the lives of 
persons who  are not minors. ”. 
 
15.  The amendment of section 62 — 
 
(a) by the substitution in subsection  (1) for paragraph (a) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(a) prescribe rules not inc onsistent  with this Act,  
aimed at ensuring for the  purpose of 
policyholder  protection that policies are  entered 
into, executed and  enforced in accordance  with 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
sound insurance principles  and practice in the  
interests of the parties and  in the public interes t 
generally; ”; 
 
(b) by the substitution in subsection  (2) for paragraph (b) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(b) that the policy and particular  information in 
relation  to a policy shall be made  known in a 
particular manner  to prospective policyholder  or 
polic yholder, and  what the legal consequences  
shall be if that is  not done; ”; 
 
(c) by the substitution in subsection  (2) for paragraph (e) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(e) for standardised wording,  definitions or 
provisions  that must be or may not be  included 
in policies; ”; 
 
(d) by the insertion in subsection (2)  after paragraph (e) 
of the following  paragraphs:  
 
“(f) for principles and requirements  relating to any 
advertisement,  brochure or similar  
communication which  relates to the business of 
a long -term insu rer, or to a  long -term policy;  
 
(g) for principles and requirements  relating 
to claims  handling, complaints handling  
and dispute resolution  applicable to long -
term  insurers;  
 
(h) for principles and requirements  relating 
to the manner  and form in which  poli cy 
benefits must be  provided;  
 
(i) for principles and requirements  relating 
to misrepresentation  in relation to a  long -
term policy;  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
(j) for requirements relating to  the validity of 
a contract  under a long -term policy;  
 
(k) for principles and requirements  relating 
to non -payment  of premiums and  grace 
periods in relation to  a long -term policy, 
and related  disclosures to policyholders;  
 
(l) for principles and requirements  relating 
to insurance  product design and ongoing  
review of insurance product  performance  
to ensure the  fair treatment of 
policyholders;  
 
(m) for principles and requirements  relating 
to a long -term  insurer ’s dealings with  
intermediaries;  
 
(n) for principles and requirements  relating 
to data management  in order to 
appropriately  identify, assess , measure 
and manage the  conduct of business 
risks  associated with its insurance  
business to ensure the  fair treatment of 
policyholders;  and  
 
(o) for principles and requirements  relating 
to the termination  of policies. ”; 
 
(e) by the substitution for subsec tion  (3) of the following 
subsection:  
 
“(3) Rules referred to in subsection  (2) may — 
 
(a) apply generally;  
 
(b) be limited in application to  a particular 
kind or type of  policies, long -term 
insurers  or long -term insurance 
business;  or 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
(c) differentiate be tween different  kinds of 
insurers, policies,  contracts, and 
services. ”; and  
 
(f) by the substitution for subsection  (5) of the following 
subsection:  
 
“(5) Any rule promulgated by  the Minister prior to the 
commencement  of the Financial Services  Laws 
General  Amendment  Act, 2013, must be 
regarded as  having been prescribed under  this 
section, and remains valid  and enforceable until 
repealed or  amended by the Authority. ”. 
 
16.  The substitution for subsection  (1) of section 63 of the 
following subsection:  
 
“(1) Subject to subsections (2),  (3) and (4), the 
policy benefits provided  or to be provided to a 
person  under one or more — 
 
(a) in respect of a registered insurer,  
assistance, life, disability  or health 
policies; or  
 
(b) in the case of a licensed insurer,  poli cies 
written under the risk,  fund risk, credit life, 
funeral,  life annuities, individual 
investment  or income drawdown class  of 
life insurance business as set  out in 
Table 1 of Schedule 2 of  the Insurance 
Act,  
 
in which that person or the spouse  of that 
person is the life insured and  which has or have 
been in force for  at least three years (or the 
assets  acquired exclusively with those  policy 
benefits ) shall, other than for  a debt secured by 
the policy — 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
(i) during his or her lifetime, not  be liable to 
be a ttached or subjected  to execution 
under a  judgment of a court or form part  
of his or her insolvent estate; or  
 
(ii) upon his or her death, if he or  she is 
survived by a spouse,  child, stepchild or 
parent, not be  available for the purpose 
of the  payment of his or her debts. ”. 
 
17.  The substitution for section 66  of the following section:  
 
“Offences by persons other than  long -term 
insurers  
 
66.(1) A person, other than a  long -term insurer, who — 
 
(a) contravenes or fails to comply  with a 
provision of section  44(1), 45, 47 or 49; 
or 
 
(b)  furnishes false information in  relation to 
an application for  approval under a 
provision of  this Act,  
 
shall be guilty of an offence and  liable on 
conviction to a fine not  exceeding R5 million or 
to imprisonment  for a period no t exceeding  five 
years, or to both such fine and  such 
imprisonment.  
 
(2) A person, other than a long -term  insurer, who 
contravenes or  fails to comply with a provision 
of section 8(3 ) shall be guilty of an  offence and 
liable on conviction to a  fine not exce eding R10 
million or to  imprisonment for a period not 
exceeding  10 years, or to both such  fine and 
such imprisonment. ”. 
 
18.  Section 68 is substituted for the  following section:  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
“Penalty for failure to furnish the  Authority with 
returns etc.  
 
68. (1)  
(a)  A person who fails to  furnish the Authority 
with a return,  information or document, 
as provided  by this Act, within the 
specified  period or the period determined  
by the Authority by notice on the  official 
website, or any extension  thereof, shall, 
irresp ective of any  criminal proceedings 
instituted  against the person under this 
Act, be  liable to a penalty not exceeding  
R5 000 for every day during which  the 
failure continues, unless the Authority,  on 
good cause shown,  waives the penalty or 
any part  thereof . 
 
(b) The amount referred to in  paragraph (a) 
must be adjusted by  the Authority 
annually in order to  reflect the Consumer 
Price Index, as  published by Statistics 
South Africa.  
 
(2) A penalty contemplated in  subsection (1 ) shall 
be imposed by  notice by the  Authority on the 
person  concerned, and such imposition  shall be 
preceded by the procedures  determined by the 
Authority by notice  on the official website to 
afford  such person a reasonable opportunity  to 
be heard, and shall take effect  on a date 
specified in such notice  of the Authority which 
may be a  date prior to the date of the notice.  
 
(3) A penalty so imposed shall  constitute a debt 
due to the Authority  and shall be recoverable by 
action  by the Authority in any court  having 
jurisdiction. ”. 
 
19.  The am endment of section 72 — 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
(a) by the substitution in subsection  (1) for paragraph (b) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(b) prescribing services performed  by an 
independent  intermediary or any other  person 
on behalf of an  insurer that will be subject  to the 
regu lations and setting  out requirements that  
apply to such services; ”; 
 
(b) by the insertion in subsection (1)  after paragraph (b) 
of the following  paragraphs:  
 
“(bA) prohibiting or limiting  classes of persons from  
performing any service  prescribed in 
accorda nce  with paragraph (b); 
 
(bB) prescribing governance,  risk management, 
internal  controls, oversight  and operational 
ability  requirements in relation  to a service 
prescribed in  accordance with paragraph  (b); 
 
(bC ) prescribing requirements  relating to notifi cation 
to or approval by the Authority  before entering  
into or terminating an  arrangement in respect  of 
any service prescribed  in accordance with 
paragraph  (b); 
 
(bD) prescribing requirements,  limitations or  
prohibitions in respect of  any agreement 
relatin g to any service prescribed  in accordance 
with paragraph  (b);”; 
 
(c) by the substitution in subsection  (1) for paragraph (c) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(c) prescribing different or  additional requirements 
for the receipt or retention of,  or dealing with  
money in  respect of premiums; ”; 
 
(d) by the substitution in subsection  (1) for paragraph (d) 
of the following  paragraph:  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
 
“(d)  
(i) prohibiting or limiting  the consideration  
which may be offered  or provided; and  
 
(ii) prescribing the timing,  manner and 
conditions  under which consideration  
may be offered or  provided,  
 
by or on behalf of a long -term insurer  to an 
independent intermediary  or any other person, 
for rendering  services prescribed in  accordance 
with paragraph (b), or  to any other person 
associated  in business with or related within the  
second degree of consanguinity or  affinity to the 
independent intermediary  or other person who 
has rendered  or is to render such services; ”; 
 
(e) the substitution in subsection (1)  for paragraph (e) with 
the followin g paragraph:  
 
“(e)  
(i) prohibiting consideration  that may be 
accepted;  and  
 
(ii) prescribing the timing,  manner and 
conditions  under which consideration  
may be accepted,  
 
by an independent intermediary or  other person 
for rendering services  prescribed in accordance 
with  paragraph (b), or by any other  person 
associated in business with  or related within the 
second degree  of consanguinity or affinity to the  
independent intermediary or other  person who 
has rendered or is to  render such services; ”; 
 
(f) by the  substitution in subsection  (1)(gA) in 
subparagraph (v ) of “.” with “; and ”; 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
(g) by the insertion in subsection  (1)(gA) after 
subparagraph (v ) of the following subparagraph:  
 
“(vi) governance, risk management,  internal 
controls,  oversight and operational  ability ”; and  
 
(h) by the insertion in subsection (2)  after paragraph (b) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(bA) empower the Authority  to prescribe matters  
specified in the Regulations;  and ”. 
 
20.  The amendment of the Arrangement  of Sections — 
 
(a) by the dele tion of all references to  sections that are 
repealed by this  Act;  
 
(b) by the substitution of section 8  with the following:  
 
“8.  Prohibition on performance  of certain acts, 
by certain  persons ”; 
 
(c) by the substitution of Part IV with  the following:  
 
“PAR T IV  
RETURNS TO AUTHORITY ”; and  
 
(d) by inserting after “47. Receipt for  premium paid in 
cash, and validity  of policy ” the following:  
 
“47A. Collection of premiums  by intermediaries ”. 
 
21.  The substitution for the long title  of the Act of the 
following:  
 
“To provide for a legal framework  for the 
regulation of conduct of  business supervision of 
long -term  insurers in the Republic, that is  
consistent, to the extent practicable,  with 
international standards  for insurance regulation  
and supervision; for the con trol of  certain 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
activities of long -term insurers  and 
intermediaries; and for  matters connected 
therewith. ”. 
 
53 of 1998  Short -term  
Insurance Act  1.  The substitution of all references  in this Act to 
“Registrar ” with “Authority ”. 
 
2.  The substitution for section 1 of  the following section:  
 
“Definitions  
 
1.(1) In this Act, unless the context  otherwise 
indicates — 
 
“accident and health policy ” means a 
contract in terms of which  a person, in return for 
a premium,  undertakes to provide policy 
benefits  if a dis ability, health or death  event 
contemplated in the contract  as a risk event 
occurs, and includes  a reinsurance policy in 
respect of  such a contract — 
 
(a) excluding any contract — 
 
(i) that provides for the  conduct of the 
business of  a medical scheme 
referre d to in section 1(1 ) of the  
Medical Schemes Act; or  
 
(ii) of which the policyholder is  a 
medical scheme registered  under 
the Medical Schemes  Act and 
which contract — 
 
(aa ) relates to a particular  
member of the scheme  or to 
the beneficiaries  of such 
member; and  
 
(bb ) is entered into by the  
medical scheme to  fund in Page 109  of 148  
 
 
Prepared by:  No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
whole or in  part its liability to 
the member or the 
beneficiaries  of the member  
referred to in subparagraph  
(aa ) in terms of  its rules; but  
 
(b) specifically including, despite  paragraph 
(a)(i), an y category  of contracts identified 
by the  Minister by regulation under  
section 70(2A ) as an accident  and health 
policy;  
 
“Authority ” means the Financial  Sector 
Conduct Authority established  by the Financial 
Sector Regulation  Act;  
 
“conduct standard ” has th e same  meaning 
ascribed to it in terms of  section 1(1 ) of the 
Financial Sector  Regulation Act;  
 
“death event ” means the event of  the life of a 
person or an unborn  having ended;  
 
“disability event ” means the event  of the 
functional ability of the mind  or bo dy of a person 
or an unborn  becoming impaired;  
 
“engineering policy ” means a contract  in 
terms of which a person, in  return for a 
premium, undertakes to  provide policy benefits 
if an event  contemplated in the contract as a  risk 
relating to — 
 
(a) the posses sion, use or ownership  of 
machinery or equipment,  other than a 
motor vehicle, in  the carrying on of a 
business;  
 
(b) the erection of buildings or  other 
structures or the undertaking  of other 
works; or  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
 
(c) the installation of machinery or  
equipment,  
 
occur s; and includes a reinsurance  policy in 
respect of such a policy;  
 
“Financial Sector Regulation Act ” means the 
Financial Sector Regulation  Act, 2017;  
 
“guarantee policy ” means a contract  in terms 
of which a person,  other than a bank, in return 
for a  premiu m, undertakes to provide  policy 
benefits if an event, contemplated  in the policy 
as a risk relating  to the failure of a person to 
discharge  an obligation, occurs; and  includes a 
reinsurance policy in respect  of such a policy;  
 
“health event ” means an event  relating to the 
health of the mind or  body of a person or an 
unborn;  
 
“independent intermediary ” has  the meaning 
as prescribed in the  regulations;  
 
“Insurance Act ” means the Insurance  Act, 
2017;  
 
“joint standard ” has the same  meaning 
ascribed to it in ter ms of  section 1(1 ) of the 
Financial Sector  Regulation Act;  
 
“liability policy ” means a contract  in terms of 
which a person, in return  for a premium, 
undertakes to provide  policy benefits if an 
event, contemplated  in the contract as a risk  
relating to the i ncurring of a liability,  otherwise 
than as part of a  policy relating to a risk more 
specifically  contemplated in another  definition in 
this section, occurs; and  includes a reinsurance 
policy in respect  of such a policy;  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
 
“licensed insurer ” means — 
 
(a) a pr eviously registered insurer  as defined 
in item 1 of Schedule  3 to the Insurance 
Act who has  been granted a licence 
under  section 23 of the Insurance Act  
within the period referred to in  item 6.2(2 ) 
of Schedule 3 to the  Insurance Act; or  
 
(b) a person who h as been licensed  under 
section 23 or 24 of the  Insurance Act on 
or after the  date on which that Act 
commenced;  
 
“long -term insurer ” has the meaning  
assigned to it in the Long -term  Insurance Act, 
1998;  
 
“Medical Schemes Act ” means the  Medical 
Schemes Act, 1 998 (Act  No. 131 of 1998);  
 
“Minister ” means the Cabinet  member 
responsible for finance;  
 
“miscellaneous policy ” means a  contract in 
terms of which a person,  in return for a 
premium, undertakes  to provide policy benefits 
if an  event, contemplated in the co ntract  as a 
risk relating to any matter not  otherwise defined 
in this section,  occurs; and includes a 
reinsurance  policy in respect of such a policy;  
 
“motor policy ” means a contract in  terms of 
which a person, in return  for a premium, 
undertakes to provid e policy benefits if an 
event, contemplated  in the contract as a risk  
relating to the possession, use or  ownership of 
a motor vehicle, occurs;  and includes a 
reinsurance  policy in respect of such a policy;  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
“official website ” means a website  of the 
Authori ty; 
 
“personal lines business ” means  short -term 
insurance business in  respect of which the 
policyholder is  a natural person;  
 
“policy benefits ” means — 
 
(a) in respect of a registered insurer,  one or 
more sums of  money, other than an 
annuity, or  services or  other benefits;  
 
(b) in respect of a licensed insurer,  benefits 
to which a person is  contractually entitled 
to under a  non -life insurance policy 
arising  from an insurer ’s insurance 
obligations;  
 
“policyholder ” in respect of a — 
 
(a) registered insurer, mea ns the  person 
entitled to be provided  with the policy 
benefits under a  short -term policy;  
 
(b) licensed insurer has the meaning  
assigned to in the Insurance Act;  
 
“premium ” in respect of a — 
 
(a) registered insurer, means the  
consideration given or to be  given in 
return for an undertaking  to provide 
policy benefits;  
 
(b) licensed insurer has the meaning  
assigned to in the Insurance Act;  
 
“property policy ” means a contract  in terms of 
which a person, in return  for a premium, 
undertakes to provide  policy benef its if an 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
event, contemplated  in the contract as a risk  
other than a risk more specifically  contemplated 
in another definition  in this section relating to the 
use,  ownership, loss of or damage to  movable 
or immovable property  occurs; and includes a 
reinsur ance  policy in respect of such a policy;  
 
“Register ” means the Financial  Sector 
Information Register referred  to in section 256 
of the Financial  Sector Regulation Act;  
 
“registered insurer ” means  
 
(a) a previously registered insurer  as defined 
in item 1 of  Schedule  3 to the Insurance 
Act for the  period between the date on  
which the Insurance Act commenced  and 
the previously registered  insurer ’s 
licence application  referred to in item 6(2 ) 
of Schedule 3 to the Insurance Act  has 
been granted or not granted;  or 
 
(b) for a period of 18 months after  the 
effective date of the Insurance  Act as 
referred to in item  11 of Schedule 3 of the 
Insurance  Act, Lloyd ’s or a Lloyd ’s 
underwriter;  
 
“regulation ” means a regulation  under section 
70;  
 
“repealed Act ” means the Insu rance  Act, 1943 
(Act No. 27 of  1943);  
 
“representative ” has the meaning  as 
prescribed in the regulations;  
 
“risk” means a possibility that a  particular 
event may occur during  the period for which a 
short -term  policy is operative;  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
“services as intermediary ” has the  meaning 
as prescribed in the regulations;  
 
“short -term insurance business ” means — 
 
(a) in respect of a registered insurer,  the 
business of providing or  undertaking to 
provide policy  benefits under short -term 
policies;  
 
(b) in respect of a license d insurer,  non -life 
insurance business as  defined in section 
1 of the Insurance  Act;  
 
“short -term insurer ” means a registered  
insurer or a licensed insurer;  
 
“short -term policy ” means — 
 
(a) in respect of a registered insurer,  an 
engineering policy, guarant ee policy, 
liability policy, miscellaneous  policy, 
motor policy, accident  and health policy, 
property  policy or transportation policy  or 
a contract comprising a combination  of 
any of those policies;  and includes a 
contract  whereby any such contract is  
rene wed or varied;  
 
(b) in respect of a licensed  insurer, a non -life 
insurance  policy as defined in section 1 
of the Insurance Act;  
 
“short -term reinsurance policy ” means — 
 
(a) in respect of a registered insurer,  a 
reinsurance policy in respect  of a short -
term  policy;  
 
(b) in respect of a licensed insurer,  a non -life 
insurance policy written  under the 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
reinsurance class  of non -life insurance 
business as  set out in Table 1 of 
Schedule 2  of the Insurance Act;  
 
“this Act ” includes any regulation  made, or 
matter pre scribed under  this Act;  
 
“transportation policy ” means a  contract in 
terms of which a person,  in return for a 
premium, undertakes  to provide policy benefits 
if an  event, contemplated in the contract  as a 
risk relating to the possession,  use or ownership 
of a vessel, aircraft  or other craft or for the 
conveyance  of persons or goods by air, space,  
land or water, or to the storage,  treatment or 
handling of goods so  conveyed or to be so 
conveyed, occurs;  and includes a reinsurance  
policy in respect of such a po licy;  
 
“Tribunal ” means the Financial  Services 
Tribunal established in  terms of section 219 of 
the Financial  Sector Regulation Act;  
 
“unborn ” means a human foetus  conceived 
but not born.  
 
(2) For the purposes of entering  into a short -term 
policy the life o f an unborn shall be deemed to 
begin  at conception.  
 
(3) Unless the context otherwise  indicates, words 
and expressions not  defined in subsection (1 ) 
have the  same meaning ascribed to them in  
terms of the Financial Sector Regulation  Act or 
Insurance Act.  
 
(4) A reference to statutory actuary  in this Act must 
be construed as  a reference to the head of the 
actuarial  control function appointed by a  short -
term insurer in accordance  with the Insurance 
Act. ”. 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
 
3.  The amendment of section 1A — 
 
(a) by the deletion of subsection (1);  
 
(b) by the substitution for subsection  (4) of the following 
subsection:  
 
“(4) Unless expressly provided  otherwise in this Act, 
or this Act requires a matter to be  prescribed by 
regulation, a reference  in this Act to a matter  
being — 
 
(a) prescribed must be read as a  reference 
to the matter being  prescribed in a 
conduct  standard or a joint standard;  or 
 
(b) determined must be read as  a reference 
to the Authority  determining the matter in  
writing and registering the  determination 
in the Reg ister. ”; and  
 
(c) by the substitution for subsection  (7) of the following 
subsection:  
 
“(7) The reference in section  3(3 ) to an appeal to the 
board of  appeal established by section 26  of the 
Financial Services Board  Act must be read as a 
reference  to a rec onsideration of the decision  by 
the Tribunal in terms of  the Financial Sector 
Regulation  Act. ”. 
 
4.  The whole of sections 2(2), 2(3),  4(5), 4(7), 7, 8(1) , 9 
– 34, 36 – 42, 46,  47, 51, 53, 54, 65, 67 – 69, and  
70(2A), and Schedules 1 – 3 are  hereby repeale d. 
 
5.  The whole of sections 56 to 63  and Schedule 3 are 
hereby repealed 18  months after the effective date of 
the Insurance Act.  
 
6.  The amendment of section 3 — 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
 
(a) by the substitution in subsection  (2)(b) for 
subparagraph (i ) of the  following subparag raph:  
 
“(i) the fees determined under  the Financial Sector 
Regulation  Act; and ”; and  
 
(b) by the substitution for subsection  (4) of the following 
subsection:  
 
“(4) A person may, upon payment  of any fees 
determined  under the Financial Sector  
Regulation Act , inspect only  those documents 
determined by  the Authority by notice on the  
official website, which are held  by the Authority 
under this Act  in relation to a short -term insurer  
or an intermediary or,  obtain a copy of or extract 
from  any such document. ”. 
 
7.  The amendment of section 8 — 
 
(a) by the substitution of the heading  of the section for the 
following  heading:  
 
“Prohibition on performance  of certain acts, 
by certain persons ”; 
 
(b) by the substitution in subsection  (2) for paragraph (a) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(a) short -term insurers, excluding  Lloyd ’s and  
Lloyd ’s underwriters, are  the only underwriters 
in terms of the short -term  policy concerned; ”; 
 
(c) by the substitution in subsection  (2) for paragraph (b) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(b) such person or another  person has entered into 
a written agreement as referred  to in section 
48A(1)  with Lloyd ’s underwriters  for the 
performance of the  function referred to in 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
section  48A(1) (a) in relation  to the short -term 
policy  concerned, and Lloyd ’s underw riters are 
the only  underwriters in terms of  the short -term 
policy concerned;  or”; 
 
(d) by the deletion in subsection (2 ) of paragraph (c); and  
 
(e) by the substitution for subsection  (4) of the following 
subsection:  
 
“(4) Subsections (2 ) and (3)  shall not  apply in the 
case of a  short -term reinsurance policy  unless 
and to the extent that the  Authority so 
determines by notice  in the Gazette .”. 
 
8.  The substitution of the heading of  Part IV for the 
following:  
 
“RETURNS TO AUTHORITY ”. 
 
9.  The amendment of se ction 35 — 
 
(a) by the substitution in subsection  (1) of the words 
following paragraph  (c) of the following words:  
 
“determined by the Authority  by notice on the official 
website,  either generally or in relation to  a particular 
insurer. ”; and  
 
(b) by the su bstitution in subsection  (2) for the words 
preceding paragraph  (a) of the following words:  
 
“If the Authority is satisfied  that a return furnished to it 
in terms of subsection (1 ) is incomplete  or incorrect, it 
may,  by notice —”. 
 
10.  The substitution for section 44  of the following section:  
 
“Prohibition on inducements  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
44.(1) Unless done in accordance  with the rules 
prescribed under section  55, no person shall 
provide, or  offer to provide, directly or indirectly,  
any valuable consideration as  an inducemen t to 
a person to enter  into, continue, vary or cancel 
a short -term policy.  
 
(2) Subsection (1 ) shall not apply  in the case of a 
short -term  reinsurance policy unless and to the  
extent that the Authority so determines  by 
notice in the Gazette .”. 
 
11.  The su bstitution for section 45  of the following section:  
 
“Collection of premiums by  intermediaries  
 
45.(1) No independent intermediary  shall receive, hold 
or in any  other manner deal with premiums  
payable under a short -term policy  entered into 
or to be entered  into  with a short -term insurer 
and no  such short -term insurer shall permit  
such independent intermediary to so  receive, 
hold or in any other manner  deal with such 
premiums — 
 
(a) unless authorised to do so by  the short -
term insurer concerned  as prescribed by 
regulation; and  
 
(b) otherwise than in accordance  with the 
regulations.  
 
(2) Subsection (1 ) shall not apply  in the case of a 
short -term  reinsurance policy unless and to the  
extent that the Authority so determines  by 
notice in the Gazette .”. 
 
12.  The su bstitution for section 48  of the following section:  
 
“Limitation of remuneration  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
48.  No consideration shall be — 
 
(a) offered or provided by a short -term  
insurer or a person on behalf  of a short -
term insurer to an  independent 
intermediary or any  other per son; or  
 
(b) accepted by an independent 
intermediary  or other person,  
 
for rendering services referred to in  the 
regulations, other than commission  or 
remuneration contemplated  in the regulations 
and otherwise  than in accordance with the 
regulations. ”. 
 
13.  The amendment of section  48A — 
 
(a) by the substitution of all references  in this section to 
“short -term  insurer or a Lloyd ’s underwriter ” with 
“short -term insurer ”; 
 
(b) by the substitution for subsection  (1) of the following 
subsection:  
 
“(1) A short -term insurer  may, in terms of a written 
agreement  only, and in accordance  with any 
requirements, limitations  or prohibitions that 
may be  prescribed by regulation, allow  another 
person to do any one or  more of the following 
on behalf  of that insurer:  
 
(a) Enter into, vary or renew a  short -term 
policy on behalf  of that insurer;  
 
(b) determine the wording of a  short -term 
policy;  
 
(c) determine premiums under a  short -term 
policy;  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
(d) determine the value of  policy benefits 
under a  short -term policy;  
 
(e) settle claims under a short -term  policy. ”; 
and  
 
(c) the insertion after subsection (1 ) of the following 
subsection:  
 
“(1A ) Subsection (1 ) shall  not apply in the case of a 
short -term  reinsurance policy unless  and to the 
extent that the Authority  so determines by 
notice  in the Gazette .”. 
 
14.  The substitution of section 50  for the following section:  
 
“Limitation on policy benefits in  event of death of 
unborn or of  certain minors  
 
50.  A short -term insurer shall not  undertake to 
provide, or provide,  policy benefits, in terms 
of— 
 
(a) in respect of a registered insurer,  an 
accident and health policy; or   
 
(b) in respect of a licensed insurer,  a non -life 
policy written under  the accident and 
health class of  non -life insurance 
business as  set out in Table 2 of 
Schedule 2  of the Insurance Act,  
 
in the event of the death of an unborn,  or of a 
minor before that minor  attains the age of 14 
years, the  value of which, on its own or when  
added to the value of policy benefits  which to its 
knowledge are to be  provided in that even t by a 
short -term  insurer or a long -term insurer  or a 
friendly society in terms of any  policy, exceeds, 
in the event of the  death — 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
(c) of that unborn, or of that minor  before he 
or she attains the age  of six years, R20 
000; or  
 
(d) of that minor after he or she  attains the 
age of six years but  before he or she 
attains the age  of 14 years, R50 000,  
 
or such other amount prescribed by  the 
Minister. ”. 
 
15.  The amendment of section 55 — 
 
(a) by the substitution in subsection  (1) for paragraph (a) 
of the follow ing paragraph:  
 
“(a) prescribe rules not inconsistent  with this Act,  
aimed at ensuring for the  purpose of 
policyholder  protection that policies are  entered 
into, executed and  enforced in accordance  with 
sound insurance principles  and practice in the  
intere sts of the parties and  in the public interest 
generally; ”; 
 
(b) by the substitution in subsection  (2) for paragraph (b) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(b) that the policy and particular  information in 
relation  to a policy shall be made  known in a 
particular  manner  to prospective policyholder  or 
policyholder, and  what the legal consequences  
shall be if that is  not done; ”; 
 
(c) by the substitution in subsection  (2) for paragraph (e) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(e) for standardised wording,  definitions or 
pro visions  that must be or may not be  included 
in policies; ”; 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
(d) by the insertion in subsection (2)  after paragraph (e) 
of the following  paragraphs:  
 
“(f) for principles and requirements  relating to any 
advertisement,  brochure or  similar 
communication  which  relates to the business  of 
a short -term insurer,  or to a short -term  policy;  
 
(g) for principles and requirements  relating to 
claims  handling, complaints handling  and 
dispute resolution  applicable to short -term  
insurers;  
 
(h) for principles and requirement s relating to the 
manner  and form in which  policy benefits must 
be provided;  
 
(i) for principles and requirements  relating to 
misrepresentation  in relation to a  short -term 
policy;  
 
(j) for requirements relating to  the validity of a 
contract  under a short -term policy;  
 
(k) for principles and requirements  relating to non -
payment  of premiums and  grace periods in 
relation to  a short -term policy, and  related 
disclosures to policyholders;  
 
(l) for principles and requirements  relating to 
insurance  product design a nd ongoing  review of 
insurance  product performance to  ensure the 
fair treatment of  policyholders;  
 
(m) for principles and requirements  relating to a 
short -term  insurer ’s dealings  with 
intermediaries;  
 
(n) for principles and requirements  relating to data 
ma nagement  in order to appropriately  identify, 
assess,  measure and manage the  conduct of 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
business risks  associated with its insurance  
business to ensure the  fair treatment of 
policyholders;  and  
 
(o) for principles and requirements  relating to the 
termination  of policies. ”; 
 
(e) by the substitution for subsection  (3) of the following 
subsection:  
 
“(3) Rules referred to in subsection  (2) may — 
 
(a) apply generally;  
 
(b) be limited in application to  a particular 
kind or type of  policies, short -term 
insurers  or sh ort-term insurance  
business; or  
 
(c) differentiate between different  kinds of 
insurers, policies,  contracts and 
services. ”; and  
 
(f) by the substitution for subsection  (5) of the following 
subsection:  
 
“(5) Any rule promulgated by  the Minister prior to the  
commencement  of the Financial Services  Laws 
General Amendment  Act, 2013, must be 
regarded as  having been prescribed under  this 
section, and remains valid  and enforceable until 
repealed or  amended by the Authority. ”. 
 
16.  The substitution for section 64  of the following section:  
 
“Offences by persons other than  short -term 
insurers  
 
64.(1) A person, other than a  short -term insurer, 
who — 
No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
(a) contravenes or fails to comply  with a 
provision of section  43(1), 44, 45 or 48;  
 
(b) furnishes false information in  relation to 
an application for  approval under a 
provision of  this Act,  
 
shall be guilty of an offence and  liable on 
conviction to a fine not  exceeding R5 million or 
to imprisonment  for a period not exceeding  five 
years, or to both such fine and  such 
impriso nment.  
 
(2) A person, other than a short -term  insurer, who 
contravenes or  fails to comply with a provision 
of section 8(2 ) shall be guilty of an  offence and 
liable on conviction to a  fine not exceeding R10 
million or to  imprisonment for a period not 
exceed ing 10 years, or to both such  fine and 
such imprisonment. ”. 
 
17.  The insertion of section 66 of  the following section:  
 
“Penalty for failure to furnish the  Authority with 
returns etc.  
 
66. (1) 
(a) A person who fails to  furnish the Authority 
with a return,  information or document, 
as provided  by this Act, within a specified  
period or the period determined by  the 
Authority by notice on the official  website, 
or any extension  thereof, shall, 
irrespective of any  criminal proceedings 
instituted  against the perso n under this 
Act, be  liable to a penalty not exceeding  
R5 000 for every day during which  the 
failure continues, unless the Authority,  on 
good cause shown,  waives the penalty or 
any part  thereof.  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
(b) The amount referred to in  paragraph (a) 
must be adjusted  by the Authority 
annually in order to  reflect the Consumer 
Price Index, as  published by Statistics 
South Africa.  
 
(2) A penalty contemplated in  subsection (1 ) shall 
be imposed by  notice by the Authority on the 
person  concerned, and such imposition  shall b e 
preceded by the procedures  determined by the 
Authority by notice  on the official website to 
afford  such person a reasonable opportunity  to 
be heard, and shall take effect  on a date 
specified in such notice  of the Authority which 
may be a  date prior to th e date of the notice.  
 
(3) A penalty so imposed shall  constitute a debt 
due to the Authority  and shall be recoverable by 
action  by the Authority in any court  having 
jurisdiction. ”. 
 
18. The amendment of section 70 — 
 
(a) by the insertion of the subsection  number “(1)” before 
the words   
 
“The Minister may make regulations  not inconsistent 
with this  Act —”; 
 
(b) by the substitution in subsection  (1) for paragraph (b) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(b) prescribing services performed  by an 
independent  intermediary  or any other  person 
on behalf of an  insurer that are subject to  the 
regulations, and setting  out requirements that 
apply  to such services; ”; 
 
(c) by the insertion in subsection (1)  after paragraph (b) 
of the following  paragraphs:  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
“(bA) prohibiting or lim iting  classes of persons from  
performing any service  prescribed in 
accordance  with paragraph (b); 
 
(bB) prescribing governance,  risk management, 
internal  controls, oversight  and operational 
ability  requirements in relation  to a service 
prescribed in  accord ance with paragraph  (b); 
 
(bC) prescribing requirements  relating to notification 
to or approval by the Authority  before entering  
into or terminating an  arrangement in respect  of 
any service prescribed  in accordance with 
paragraph  (b); 
 
(bD) prescribing req uirements,  limitations or 
prohibitions  in respect of any  agreement 
relating to any  service prescribed in  accordance 
with paragraph  (b);”; 
 
(d) by the substitution in subsection  (1) for paragraph (c) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(c) prescribing periods wit hin which policies and  
amended policies are to be  issued; ”; 
 
(e) by the substitution in subsection  (1) for paragraph (e) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(e)  
(i) prohibiting or limiting  the consideration  
which may be offered  or provided; and  
 
(ii) prescribin g the timing,  manner and 
conditions  under which consideration  
may be offered or  provided,  
 
by or on behalf of a short -term  insurer to an 
independent intermediary  or any other person, 
for rendering  services prescribed in accordance  
with paragraph (b), or to  any other person 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
associated in  business with or related within the  
second degree of consanguinity or  affinity to the 
independent intermediary  or other person who 
has rendered  or is to render such services; ”; 
 
(f) by the substitution in subsection  (1) for paragraph (f) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(f)  
(i) prohibiting consideration  that may be 
accepted;  and  
 
(ii) prescribing the timing,  manner and 
conditions  under which consideration  
may be accepted,  
 
by an independent intermediary or  other person 
for rend ering services  prescribed in accordance 
with  paragraph (b), or by any other person  
associated in business with or  related within the 
second degree of  consanguinity or affinity to the  
independent intermediary or other  person who 
has rendered or is to  render  such services; ”; 
 
(g) by the insertion in subsection (1)  after paragraph (f) of 
the following  paragraphs:  
 
“(fA) prescribing different  classes of persons to  
whom consideration contemplated  in 
paragraphs  (e) and (f) may be offered  or 
provided, for such  ser vices rendered or to be  
rendered; ”; 
 
(h) by the substitution in subsection  (1)(gA) for 
subparagraph (iii ) of the following subparagraph:  
 
“(iii) any consideration that  may be offered or 
provided  from, by or on behalf  of a short -term 
insurer  to a person tha t enters into an 
agreement  contemplated in section  48A(1 ) with 
a short -term  insurer; ”; 

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
 
(i) by the substitution in subsection  (1)(gA) for 
subparagraph (v ) of the  following subparagraph:  
 
“(v) the circumstances under  which a person who 
has  entered into an a greement  contemplated in 
section  48A(1 ) may render services  in respect 
of a policy  not referred to that person  by the 
relevant insurer or  an independent 
intermediary,  and ”; 
 
(j) by the insertion in subsection  (1)(gA) after 
subparagraph (v ) of the following  subparagraph:  
 
“(vi) governance, risk management,  internal 
controls,  oversight and operational  ability; ”; and  
 
(k) by the insertion in subsection (2)  after paragraph (b) 
of the following  paragraph:  
 
“(bA) empower the Authority  to prescribe certain 
matters  as specified in the  Regulations; and ”. 
 
19.  The amendment of the Arrangement  of Sections — 
 
(a) by the deletion of all references to  sections that are 
repealed by this  Act;  
 
(b) by the substitution of section 8  with the following:  
 
“8.  Prohibition on per formance  of certain acts, 
by certain  persons ”; and  
 
(c) by the substitution of Part IV with  the following:  
 
“PART IV  
RETURNS TO AUTHORITY ”. 
 
20.  The substitution for the long title  of the Act of the 
following:  

No. and year of Act  Short title  Extent of amendment or repeal  
“To provide for a legal framework  for the 
regulation of conduct of  business supervision of 
short -term  insurers in the Republic, that is  
consistent, to the extent practicable,  with 
international standards  for insurance regulation  
and supervision; for the control of  certain 
activities of short -term  insurers and 
intermediaries; and  for matters connected 
therewith. ”. 
 
  SCHEDULE 2  
CLASSES AND SUB -CLASSES  
 
In this Schedule — 
 
“beneficiary ” means — 
 
(a) in the case of an insurance policy other than a group insurance policy, the person  stated in the insuranc e 
policy or a person nominated by the policyholder as the  person in respect of whom the insurer should 
meet the insurance obligations; or  
 
(b) in the case of a group insurance policy — 
 
(i) a member of the association or fund, or an employee; or  
 
(ii) a per son nominated by the member referred to in subparagraph (i ) in respect  of whom the insurer 
should meet the insurance obligations, which person is  not the association, fund or employer;  
 
“fully guaranteed ” means where the total insurance obligations under a n insurance  policy payable at the end 
date of the insurance policy or, in respect of an annuity, at each  annuity instalment, are at the start of the 
policy — 
 
(a) stated in the insurance policy in Rand terms; or  
 
(b) stated in or ascertainable from the insu rance policy with reference to the growth  rate used in calculating 
the policy ’s investment value or, in the case of an annuity,  each annuity installment, which growth rate 
is stated in the insurance policy as a  fixed rate of return or stated return linked to inflation over the full 
term of the  insurance policy;  
 
“fund ” means — 
 
(a) in respect of life insurance business — 
 
(i) a friendly society as defined in section 1 of the Friendly Societies Act, 1956  (Act No. 25 of 1956);  
 
(ii) a pension fund organisation as defined in section 1 of the Pension Funds Act,  1956 (Act No. 24 
of 1956); and  
 
(b) in respect of non -life insurance business, a medical scheme as defined in section 1  of the Medical 
Schemes Act, 1998 (Act No. 131 of 1998);  
 
“group ” in respect of the cla sses of insurance business, relates to an insurance policy  entered into with — 
   
(a) an autonomous association of persons united voluntarily to meet their common or  shared economic and 
social needs and aspirations (other than obtaining insurance),  which asso ciation is democratically -
controlled;  
 
(b) an employer; or  
 
(c) a fund,  
 
where the association, employer or fund holds the insurance policy exclusively for the  benefit of a beneficiary;  
 
“individual ” in respect of the classes of insurance business, relates  to an insurance  policy entered into with a 
person (whether individually risk rated or underwritten on a  group basis ) and — 
 
(a) includes — 
 
(i) an insurance policy where a credit provider is the policyholder and the person  in respect of whom 
the insurer sho uld meet the insurance obligations, and the  persons who are the lives insured 
under the policy are debtors of that credit  provider;  
 
(ii) an insurance policy where an employer is the policyholder and the person in  respect of whom the 
insurer should meet th e insurance obligations, and the  persons who are the lives insured under 
the policy are directors or employees  of that employer; but  
 
(b) excludes — 
 
(i) a group insurance policy; and  
 
(ii) subject to (a)(i ) and (ii), an insurance policy where the persons w ho are the life  insureds under 
the policy are two or more persons without an insurable  interest in each other;  
 
“inflation ” means any rate of inflation published by Statistics South Africa, or any  successor body, from time 
to time;  
 
“investment value ” mean s the value of an insurance policy calculated as the  accumulated basic premium and 
investment return stated in or ascertainable from the  insurance policy, less deductions specifically provided for 
in the insurance policy;  
 
“linked ” means where the insuranc e obligations under an insurance policy are — 
 
(a) not fully guaranteed or partially guaranteed; and  
(b) determined solely by reference to the value of particular assets or categories of  assets which are 
specified in the insurance policy and are actually h eld by or on  behalf of the insurer specifically for the 
purposes of the insurance policy, less  deductions specifically provided for in the insurance policy;  
 
“lump sum ” means a single stated sum of money;  
 
“market related ” means where the insurance obligat ions under an insurance policy are  not partially 
guaranteed, fully guaranteed or linked;  
 
“partially guaranteed ” means where some, but not all, the insurance obligations under  an insurance policy at 
the end date of the insurance policy or, in respect of an  annuity,  at each annuity installment, are at the start of 
the insurance policy — 
 
(a) stated in the insurance policy to be no less than an amount in Rand terms; or  
 
(b) stated in or ascertainable from the insurance policy to be no less than an amount  calcu lated with 
reference to a growth rate used in calculating the policy ’s investment value or, in the case of an annuity, 
each annuity installment, which  growth rate is stated in the insurance policy as a fixed rate of return or 
stated return  linked to inflat ion over the full term of the insurance policy;  
 
“start of the policy ” means the date on which an insurance policy is entered into  between an insurer and a 
policyholder;  
 
“underwritten on a group basis ” means where the risks covered under an insurance  poli cy are rated based 
on the characteristics of a group of people together, as opposed to  that of the individual or individuals to whom 
the policy relates.  
 
  TABLE 1  
CLASSES AND SUB -CLASSES OF INSURANCE BUSINESS  
LIFE INSURANCE  
 
CLASS  SUB -CLASS  DESCRIPTION  
1. RISK  a. Individual Death  Lump sum or, specified or 
determinable equal or unequal sums 
of money payable at specified 
intervals payable on the happening of 
a death event  
b. Individual Health  Lump sum or, specified or 
determinable equal or unequal sums 
of money payable at specified 
intervals payable on the happening of 
a health event, which sum is not 
linked to the costs or services 
regulated under the Medical Schemes 
Act, 1998 (Act No. 131 of 1998), but 
includes any kind, type or category of 
contract ide ntified by the Minister in 
regulations as an insurance policy 
that may be entered into under this 
class  
c. Individual Disability  
— lump sum  Lump sum payable on the happening 
of a disability event  
d. Individual Disability  
— recurring payment  Specified  or determinable equal or 
unequal sums of money payable at 
specified intervals payable on the 
happening of a disability event  
e. Group Death  Lump sum or, specified or 
determinable equal or unequal sums 
of money payable at specified 
intervals payable to a beneficiary on 
the happening of a death event  
f. Group Health  Lump sum or, specified or 
determinable equal or unequal sums 
of money payable at specified 
intervals payable to a beneficiary on 
the happening of a health event, 
which sum is not linked to the costs or 
services regulated under the Medical 

  CLASS  SUB -CLASS  DESCRIPTION  
Schemes Act, 1998 (Act No. 131 of 
1998), but includes any kind, type or 
category of contract identified by the 
Minister in regulations as an 
insurance policy that may be entered 
into under this class  
g. Group Disability — 
lump sum  Lump sum payable to a beneficiary on 
the happening of a disability event  
h. Group Disability — 
recurring payment  Specified or determinable equal or 
unequal sums of money payable at 
specified intervals to a beneficiary on 
the ha ppening of a disability event  
2. FUND RISK  a. Death  Lump sum or, specified or 
determinable equal or unequal sums 
of money payable at specified 
intervals payable to a fund on the 
happening of a death event relating to 
a member of the fund for the purpose 
of funding in whole or in part the 
obligation of a fund to provide benefits 
to its members in terms of its rules, 
other than a policy relating exclusively 
to a particular member of the fund or 
to the surviving spouse, children, 
dependents or nominees of a 
particular member of the fund  
b. Disability — 
lump sum  Lump sum payable to a fund on the 
happening of a disability event 
relating to a member of the fund for 
the purpose of funding in whole or in 
part the obligation of a fund to provide 
benefits to its me mbers in terms of its 
rules, other than a policy relating 
exclusively to a particular member of 
the fund or to the surviving spouse, 
children, dependents or nominees of 
a particular member of the fund  
c. Disability — 
recurring payment  Specified or determ inable equal or 
unequal sums of money payable to a 
fund at specified intervals payable on 

  CLASS  SUB -CLASS  DESCRIPTION  
the happening of a disability event 
relating to a member of the fund for 
the purpose of funding in whole or in 
part the obligation of a fund to provide 
benefits to it s members in terms of its 
rules, other than a policy relating 
exclusively to a particular member of 
the fund or to the surviving spouse, 
children, dependents or nominees of 
a particular member of the fund  
3. CREDIT LIFE    Lump sum or, specified or 
determi nable  equal or unequal sums 
of money payable at specified 
intervals  to satisfy all or part of a 
financial  liability to a credit provider — 
*  on the happening of a death  
event, health event or a 
disability  event;  
*  in the event of unemployment,  
or other in surable risk that is  
likely to impair a person ’s ability  
to earn an income or meet  
credit obligations  
4. FUNERAL  a. Individual  Lump sum or, specified or 
determinable equal or unequal sums 
of money payable at specified 
intervals not exceeding an amount 
pre scribed by the Prudential Authority 
to cover cost associated with a funeral 
or the rendering of a service on the 
happening of a death event  
b. Group  Lump sum or, specified or 
determinable equal or unequal sums 
of money payable at specified 
intervals not  exceeding an amount 
prescribed by the Prudential Authority 
payable to a beneficiary to cover costs 
associated with a funeral or the 
rendering of a service on the 
happening of a death event  

  CLASS  SUB -CLASS  DESCRIPTION  
5. LIFE  
ANNUITIES  a. Guaranteed (fully or  partially)  Specified or  determinable equal  or 
unequal sums of money payable  at 
specified intervals from  the start of the 
policy, or a fixed  or determinable 
date — 
*  for the remainder of the life of  
the policyholder; or  
*  to one or more dependants or  
nominees after the death of the  
policyholder  b. Market related  
c. With Discretionary  
Participation features  
6. INDIVIDUAL  
INVESTMENT  a. Guaranteed (fully or  partially)  Lump sum or periodic payments  
payable — 
*  on or from a fixed or 
determinable  date, whether 
payable as a  res ult of a life 
event, disability  event or death 
event of a person  or not; or  
*  at the request of the policy -
holder  b. Market related  
c. Linked  
d. With Discretionary  
Participation features  
7. FUND  
INVESTMENT  a. Guaranteed (fully or  partially)  Benefits provided for the purpose  of 
funding in whole or in part the  
obligation of a fund to provide  
investment benefits to its members  in 
terms of its rules, other  than a policy 
relating exclusively  to a particular 
member of the  fund or to the surviving 
spouse,  children, dependents or 
nominees  of a particular member of 
the fund  b. Market -related  
c. Linked  
d. With Discretionary  
Participation features  
8. INCOME  
DRAWDOWN  a. Guaranteed (fully or  partially)  Specified or determinable equal  or 
unequal  sums of money payable  at 
specified intervals from  the start of the 
policy, or a fixed  or determinable date 
linked to a  life event until the value of 
the investment is exhausted; or a  
lump sum or specified or determinable  
equal or unequal sums of  money 
pay able at specified intervals  equal to 
the remaining value  of the investment 
to the estate, or  one or more b. Market related  
c. Linked  
d. With Discretionary  
Participation features  

  CLASS  SUB -CLASS  DESCRIPTION  
dependents or nominees  after the 
death of the policyholder  
9. REI NSURANCE  a. Proportional in respect of a class or sub -class referred to above  
b. Non -proportional in respect of a class or sub -class referred to above  
 
  TABLE 2  
CLASSES AND SUB -CLASSES OF INSURANCE BUSINESS  
NON -LIFE INSURANCE  
 
CLASS  SUB -CLASS  DESCRIPT ION  
1. MOTOR  a. Personal lines  Covers damage or loss resulting from 
the possession, use or ownership of 
motor vehicles and other vehicles 
operating on land, excluding railway 
rolling stock and warranty business  b. Commercial lines  
2. PROPERTY  a. Pers onal lines  Covers damage to or loss resulting 
from the possession, use or 
ownership of property (other than 
classes 1 above and 3 to 8 below  b. Commercial lines  
3. AGRICULTURE  a. Personal lines  Covers damage or loss to crop, 
forestry, agricultural equ ipment, other 
agricultural activities and livestock  b. Commercial lines  
4. ENGINEERING    Covers damage to or loss resulting  
from the possession, use or  
ownership of machinery or 
equipment;  the erection of buildings 
or other structure; the undertaking of 
other works; or the installation of  
machinery or equipment, and 
includes  loss of revenue  
5. MARINE  a. Personal lines  Covers damage or loss resulting  from 
the possession, use or ownership  of 
vessels used on or in a  river, canal, 
dam, lake or sea  b. Commercial lines  
6. AVIATION  a. Personal lines  Covers damage or loss resulting from 
the possession, use or ownership of 
aircraft or spacecraft  b. Commercial lines  
7. TRANSPORT  a. Personal lines  Covers damage or loss resulting from 
the conveyance, sto rage, treatment 
and handling of goods in transit, 
irrespective of the form of transport  b. Commercial lines  
8. RAIL    Covers damage or loss resulting  from 
the possession, use or ownership  of 
railway rolling stock or  related 
infrastructure  
9. LEGAL  a. Personal lines  

  CLASS  SUB -CLASS  DESCRIPT ION  
EXPENSE  b. Commercial lines  Covers any legal expenses and  costs 
of litigation  
10.  LIABILITY  a. Directors and officers  Covers liability to another person  
including liability provided for  under 
the Compensation for Occupational  
Injuries and Diseases  Act, 1993 (Act 
No. 130 of 1993)  b. Employer liability  
c. Product liability (including  
product guarantee  and 
product recall)  
d. Professional indemnity  
e. Public liability  
f. Aviation  
g. Engineering (including  
environmenta l impairment  
liability)  
h. Marine  
i. Motor  
j. Rail  
k. Transport  
l. Personal  
m. Other  
11.  CONSUMER  
CREDIT  a. Personal lines  Lump sum payable to satisfy all  or 
part of a financial liability to a  credit 
provider in the event of  loss resulting 
from the possession,  use, ownership 
or benefits of the  goods or services 
supplied in  terms of the credit 
agreement  b. Commercial lines  
12.  TRADE CREDIT    Covers loss resulting from the  
provision of export credit or 
agricultural  credit or any  other trade  
credit as a result of insolvency or  any 
other event  
13.  GUARANTEE    Covers loss resulting from - 
*  insolvency;  
*  the direct and indirect failure of  
a person to discharge an 
obligation;  
*  suretyship offered as part of  
normal business activit ies,  
other than a guarantee issued 

  CLASS  SUB -CLASS  DESCRIPT ION  
by a Bank registered under the  
Banks Act, 1990  
14.  ACCIDENT AND  
HEALTH  a. Individual — 
Personal lines  Covers costs or loss of income 
resulting from — 
*  a disability or death event 
caused by an accident; or  
*  a health eve nt, other than costs 
or services regulated under the 
Medical Schemes Act, 1998, 
but includes any kind, type or 
category of contract identified 
by the Minister in regulations as 
an insurance policy that may be 
entered into under this class  
b. Individual — 
Commercial lines  Covers costs or loss of income 
resulting from - 
*  a disability or death event 
caused by an accident; or  
*  a health event, other than costs 
or services regulated under the 
Medical Schemes Act, 1998, 
but includes any — 
— kind, type or categ ory of  
contract identified by the  
Minister in regulations as 
a policy that may be 
entered  into under this 
class;  
— an event covered under 
the Compensation for 
Occupational  Injuries 
and Diseases  Act, 1993 
(Act No. 130 of  1993)  
c. Group  Covers costs or lo ss of income of  a 
beneficiary resulting from - 
*  a disability or death event  
caused by an accident; or  
*  a health event, other than costs  
or services regulated under the  
Medical Schemes Act, 1998, 

  CLASS  SUB -CLASS  DESCRIPT ION  
but includes any kind, type or 
category  of contract identi fied 
by the Minister in regulations as 
a policy that may be entered 
into  under this class  
15.  TRAVEL  a. Individual — 
Personal lines  Covers damage or loss resulting 
from — 
*  cancellation, interruption, loss 
of property (including 
baggage), or other unforese en 
events before, while and after 
travelling;  
*  a death, disability or health 
event while travelling in a 
country in which the insured 
person is not ordinarily resident  b. Individual — 
Commercial lines  
c. Group  
16.  MISCELLANEOUS  a. Personal lines  Covers damage to or loss resulting  
from a risk not addressed under  
any other class or sub -class  
referred to in this Table, which  
risk is approved by the Prudential  
Authority  b. Commercial lines  
17.  REINSURANCE  a. Proportional in respect of a class or sub -class referred to above.  
b. Non -proportional in respect of a class or sub -class referred to above  
 
  SCHEDULE 3  
TRANSITIONAL  ARRANGEMENTS  
 
1. Definitions and interpretation  
 
(1) In this Schedule, unless the context indicates otherwise — 
 
“effective date ” means the date fixed by the Minister in accordance with section 73(1)  as the date that 
this Act comes into operation;  
 
“previous Act ” means the Long -term Insurance Act, 1998 (Act No. 52 of 1998), the  Short -term 
Insurance Act, 1998 (Act No. 53 of 1998 ), or both, as the case may be; and  
 
“previously registered insurer ” means an insurer registered or deemed to have been  registered under 
the previous Act.  
 
(2) A reference in this Schedule to an item or a sub -item by number is a reference to  the correspond ing 
item or sub -item of this Schedule.  
 
2. Repeal of matters prescribed under previous Act and savings  
 
(1) Any matter prescribed by the Minister under a section of a previous Act in  respect of the prudential 
supervision of insurers before the section was amended or  repealed is hereby repealed, including Part 
2 of the Regulations under the Long -term  Insurance Act, 1998 (Act No. 52 of 1998), and Parts 2 and 3 
of the Regulations under the  Short -term Insurance Act, 1998 (Act No. 53 of 1998).  
 
(2) Despite sub -item (1), any Regulations made under section 72(2A ) of the  Long -term Insurance Act, 1998 
and section 70(2A ) of the Short -term Insurance Act,  1998 prior to the repeal thereof by this Act must be 
regarded as having been made under  section 69(1 ) of this Act an d remains valid and enforceable until 
repealed or amended by  the Minister.  
 
3. Pending matters  
 
Any matter relating to prudential supervision pending before the Registrar under  the previous Act 
immediately before the effective date and not fully addressed at that  time, must be concluded by the 
Prudential Authority in terms of that previous Act,  despite its amendment.  
 
4. Preservation and continuation of court proceedings and orders  
 
(1) Any proceedings in any court in terms of the previous Act immediately b efore  the effective date are 
continued in terms of that Act, as if it had not been amended.  

(2) Any order of a court in terms of the previous Act, and in force immediately before  the effective date, 
continues to have the same force and effect as if that A ct had not been  amended, subject to any further 
order of the court.  
 
5. Continued investigation and enforcement of previous Act  
 
Despite the partial repeal of the previous Act — 
 
(a) any investigation or inspection under the previous Act by the Registrar in  respect of  compliance 
with the previous Act and pending immediately before the effective  date, may be continued by the 
Prudential Authority, and the Prudential Authority  may take any regulatory action under those Acts that 
the Prudential Authority  deems a ppropriate in respect of any non -compliance; and  
 
(b) for a period of three years after the effective date, the Prudential Authority may  initiate an 
investigation or inspection under the Financial Sector Regulation Act in  respect of any suspected 
non -compl iance with the previous Act that occurred  during the period of three years immediately 
before the effective date, and may take  any regulatory action under those Acts that the Prudential 
Authority deems  appropriate in respect of that non -compliance.  
 
6. Con tinuation of previously registered insurers  
 
(1) As of the effective date, every previously registered insurer that was,  immediately before that date, 
registered as a long -term insurer or a short -term insurer  under the previous Act continues to exist as an  
insurer, as if it had been licensed under  this Act, and may continue to conduct the insurance business 
for which it was so  registered until its registration is converted to a licence under this Act during the 
period  of two years referred to in subitem (2) , subject to and in accordance with the governance,  financial 
soundness, security, reporting and public disclosure obligations imposed under  this Act.  
 
(2) The Prudential Authority must, subject to subitem (4), within a period of two years  after the effect ive 
date, convert the registration of all previously registered insurers to a  licence in accordance with this 
Act.  
 
(3)  
(a) The Prudential Authority must, within two months of the effective date,  publish the process the 
Prudential Authority will implement  to give effect to subitem (2).  
 
(b) The process referred to in paragraph (a ) must — 
 
(i) be reasonable and fair;  
 
(ii) allow for sufficient engagement with a previously registered insurer; and  
 Page 145  of 148  
 
 
Prepared by:  (iii) among other matters, require the insurer to demonstrate that it has a plan to meet  its stated 
commitments in terms of transformation of the insurance sector.  
 
(4)  
(a) The Prudential Authority must convert the registration of a previously  registered insurer to a 
license to conduct a class and sub -class of life insurance business  or non -life insurance business 
referred to in Schedule 2 to the Act if the previously  registered insurer, immediately prior to the 
effective date, were actively and prudently  conducting insurance business similar to that class or 
sub -class of insurance business.   
 
(b) Despite paragraph (a ) and subject to any limitations relating to a type or kind or  insurer or 
insurance business provided for in the Act, a previously registered insurer who  applies for the 
conversion of its registration to a license to conduct — 
 
(i) life insurance business must only be licensed to conduct a class or sub -class of  life 
insurance business referred to in Table 1 of Schedule 2; and  
 
(ii) non -life insurance business must only be licensed to conduct a class  or sub -class of non -
life insurance business referred to in Table 2 of Schedule 2.  
 
(5) If the Prudential Authority does not convert the registration of a previously  registered insurer to a licence 
to conduct insurance business in respect of a specific class  or su b-class set out in Schedule 2 that is 
similar to the business that the previously  registered insurer was registered for on the effective date 
because — 
 
(a) the insurer did not immediately prior to the effective date conduct that insurance  business; or  
 
(b) of the application of subitem (4)(b),  
 
the Prudential Authority must direct the insurer to make arrangements to the satisfaction  of the 
Prudential Authority to — 
 
(i) discharge its obligations under all insurance policies entered into in respect of  that cl ass or sub -
class before the conversion of that insurer ’s registration;  
 
(ii) ensure the orderly resolution of that insurance business of the insurer; or   
 
(iii) transfer that insurance business to another insurer under section 50 of this Act by  a specified  
date.  
 
(6) Section 23(5)(a ) comes into effect six months after the date on which a previously  registered insurer ’s 
registration is converted to a license.  
   
7. Maintenance of financial soundness  
 
(1) A previously registered insurer that immediately after t he effective date fails to  comply with the financial 
soundness requirements must submit a scheme or strategy  referred to in section 39 of this Act to the 
Prudential Authority in accordance with that  section, subject to that insurer holding capital of at le ast 
R10 million.  
 
(2) Despite subitem (1), any reinsurance arrangement entered into with an insurer or  reinsurer located in a 
foreign jurisdiction may continue until the previously registered  insurer ’s registration under the previous 
Act is converted to a licence under this Act  during the period of two years referred to in item 6(2 ) despite 
that foreign jurisdiction  not having been determined by the Prudential Authority as equivalent.  
 
8. Reporting  
 
A previously registered insurer whose financial year end f alls before the effective  date, must, despite 
the effective date, comply with the reporting obligations imposed  under this Act in respect of that financial 
year.  
 
9. Key persons and significant owners other than representatives, deputy representatives  of 
Lloyd’s and trustees of Lloyd ’s trust  
 
(1) Any person appointed as a key person and any significant owner of an insurer  immediately before the 
effective date is deemed to meet the fit and proper requirements  of this Act, subject to the requirements 
of this Act.  
 
(2) Despite sub -item (1), the Prudential Authority may act in accordance with section  19 if the Prudential 
Authority reasonably believes that a key person or significant owner  does not comply or no longer 
complies with the prescribed fit and proper r equirements.  
 
(3) The Prudential Authority must, when considering the conversion of the  registration of a previously 
registered insurer — 
 
(a) approve the directors and auditor of the insurer; and  
 
(b) require the previously registered insurer to demonstrat e and certify that its key  persons (other 
than directors and auditor ) and significant owners meet the  prescribed fit and proper 
requirements.  
 
10.  Conducting of business other than insurance business inside Republic and  conducting of any 
other business out side Republic  
(1) As of the effective date, subject to subitem (3 ) below, every previously  registered insurer that, 
immediately before that date, was conducting any business other  than insurance business in the 
Republic or conducting any business, includi ng business  similar to insurance business, outside the 
Republic, may continue to conduct that  business until its registration under the previous Act is converted 
to a licence under this  Act.  
 
(2) A previously registered insurer must, as part of the process  referred to in item  6(3)(a ) apply for approval 
to conduct — 
 
(a) any business other than insurance business in the Republic, including any business  performed 
on behalf of another person; or  
 
(b) any business, including business similar to insurance busines s, outside the  Republic.  
 
(3) If the Prudential Authority does not approve the business referred to in sub -item  (2), the Prudential 
Authority must direct the insurer to make arrangements to the  satisfaction of the Prudential Authority to 
ensure the orderly  resolution or transfer of that  business of the insurer.  
 
11.  Lloyd ’s 
 
(1)  
(a) The requirements of Part 8 of the previous Act continue to apply to Lloyd ’s and Lloyd ’s 
underwriters for a period of 18 months after the effective date.  
 
(b) Any sections of th e previous Act that did not apply to Lloyd ’s and Lloyd ’s underwriters prior to the 
amendment of that Act by Schedule 1 to this Act continues not  to apply to Lloyd ’s and Lloyd ’s 
underwriters for a period of 18 months only after the  effective date.  
 
(2) Lloy d’s must, within three months after the effective date, submit a plan to the  Prudential Authority 
demonstrating how compliance with this Act will be achieved  within 18 months after the effective date.  
 
12.  Insurance groups  
 
A previously registered insurer that is part of a group of companies must, within  two months of the 
effective date, notify the Prudential Authority thereof, and provide the  Prudential Authority with detailed 
information on the structure of the group of  companies, its holding company and intra -group 
transactions.  
 
13.  Delays and exemptions  
 
The Prudential Authority, to facilitate the incremental implementation of this Act,  may, by notice in the 
Gazette —    
(a) delay the implementation of a provision of this Act for a transitional period not  exceeding two 
years from the date when that section takes effect; or  
 
(b) where practicalities require the progressive or incremental application of a specific  provision of 
this Act, exempt any insurer, controlling company, key person or  significant owner from that 
provision for a period and on conditions determined in  the notice.
#\ 