 
 
 
Prepared by:  
 
 (30 September 2004  – to date ) 
 
FINANCIAL ADVISORY AND INTERMEDIARY SERVICES ACT 37 OF 2002  
 
(Government Notice 1453  in Government Gazette 24079  dated 15 November 2002 . Commencement date: 
15 November 2002 , unless otherwise indicated)  
 
FINANCIAL ADVISORY AND INTERMEDIARY SERVICES REGULATIONS, 2003  
 
Governm ent Notice 879 in Government Gazette 25092, dated 13 June 2003. Commencement date:  
30 September 2004 [GN 270 in Gazette  26080 dated 5 March 2004 ] 
 
As amended by:  
 
Governm ent Notice 297 in Government Gazette 26112, dated 12 March 2004. Commencement date:  
12 March 2004.  
 
I, Trevor Andrew Manuel, Minister of Finance, hereby after consultation with the Registrar of Financial 
Services Providers and the Advisory Committee on Financial Services Providers, in terms of section 35 of 
the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002 (Act No. 37 of 2002), make the Regulations set 
out in the attached Schedule.  
 
The Regulations will come into effect on the date determined by the Minister of Finance in terms of section 
7(1) of the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002.  
 
(Signed)  
T A MANUEL, MP  
MINISTER OF FINANCE  
DATE: 20 May 2003  
 
SCHEDULE  
 
FINANCIAL ADVISORY AND INTERMEDIARY SERVICES REGULATIONS, 2003  
 
CHAPTER I  
DEFINITIONS  
 
1. Definitions  
 
CHAPTER II  
MATTERS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED BY ACT TO BE PRESCRIBED  
(Section 35(1)(a) of Act)  Page 2 of 9 
 
 
 
Prepared by:  
 
  
2. Period contemplated in section 45(2)(b) of Act  
 
CHAPTER III  
PROHIBITIONS ON CANVASSING FOR, AND MARKETING OR ADVERTISING OF UNAUTHORISED 
FINANCIAL SERVICES  
(Section 35(1)(b) of Act)  
 
3. 
 
CHAPTER IV  
COMPLIANCE ARRANGEMENTS  
(Section 35(1)(c) of Act)  
 
4. Application for approval  
5. Establishment of compliance function  
 
CHAPTER V  
MATTERS RELATING TO ADMINISTRATIVE AND DISCRETIONARY FSPS  
(Section 35(1)(d) and (e) of Act)  
 
6. Nominee companies of discretionary FSPs  
7. Independent nominees of administrative FSPs  
8. Written agreement with independent nominee  
9. Requirements  for independent nominee  
10. Duties of independent nominee  
11. Enforcing court orders  
12. Construction of certain references  
 
CHAPTER VI  
MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN FOREX SERVICES PROVIDERS AND CLEARING FIRMS  
(Section 35(1)(d) and (e) of Act)  
 
13. Definitions  
14. Procedure  
15. Requirements  
16. Granting or refusal of approval  
17. Interpretation  
 
CHAPTER VI I 
MISCELLANEOUS  
 Page 3 of 9 
 
 
 
Prepared by:  
 
 18. Penalties  
19. Powers of registrar to call for information  
20. Short title  
 
CHAPTER I  
DEFINITIONS  
 
1. Definitions  
In this Schedule "the Act" means the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002 (Act No. 
37 of 2002), and any word or expression to which a meaning has been assigned in the Act, read with 
the definition of "this Act" in section 1(1) of the Act, shall h ave that meaning.  
 
CHAPTER II  
MATTERS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED BY ACT TO BE PRESCRIBED  
(Section 35(1)(a) of Act)  
 
2. Period contemplated in section 45(2)(b) of Act  
 
The period contemplated in section 45(2)(b) of the Act for the conclusion of unconcluded busin ess 
referred to therein, is a period of 12 months with effect from the date determined in terms of section 
7(1) of the Act.  
 
CHAPTER III  
PROHIBITIONS ON CANVASSING FOR, AND MARKETING OR ADVERTISING OF UNAUTHORISED 
FINANCIAL SERVICES  
(Section 35(1)(b) of Ac t) 
 
3. No person - 
 
(a) may in any manner or by any means, whether within or outside the Republic, canvass for, 
market or advertise any business related to the rendering of financial services by any person 
who is not an authorised financial services provider or a representative of such a provider;  
 
(b) who is not an authorised financial services provider or a representative of such a provider, may 
in any manner or by any means - 
 
(i) publish any advertisement, communication or announcement directed to  clients; or  
 
(ii) use any name, title or designation,  
 
which implies that such person is an authorised financial services provider or a representative of 
such a provider.  Page 4 of 9 
 
 
 
Prepared by:  
 
  
CHAPTER IV  
COMPLIANCE ARRANGEMENTS  
(Section 35(1)(c) of Act)  
 
4. Application for approval  
 
An authorised financial services provider must submit an application for the approval of a compliance 
officer under section 17(2) of the Act to the registrar in writing on a form determined by the registrar 
from time to time, and must furnish all  information required for that purpose by the registrar as 
indicated on the form, or otherwise requested by the registrar.  
 
5. Establishment of compliance function  
 
(1) Subject to the provisions of the Act, an authorised financial services provider shall ensure that a 
compliance function exists or is established as part of the risk management framework of the 
business, supervised by an approved compliance officer (where required in terms of the Act), or 
otherwise managed under control and responsibility of  the provider alone.  
 
(2) The compliance function must be exercised with such diligence, care and degree of competency as 
may reasonably be expected from a person responsible for such function.  
 
(3) An approved compliance officer (where required by the Act ) must provide a provider with written 
reports on the course of, and progress achieved with, compliance monitoring duties and make 
recommendations to the provider as regards any aspect of the required compliance or monitoring 
functions.  
 
CHAPTER V  
MATTERS RELATING TO ADMINISTRATIVE AND DISCRETIONARY FSPS  
(Section 35(1)(d) and (e) of Act)  
 
6. Nominee companies of discretionary FSPs  
 
(1) The functions of the nominee company of a discretionary FSP must be limited to its object and to such 
other functions as ma y be necessary to achieve the said object.  
 
(2) A discretionary FSP must, prior to obtaining authorisation, apply to the registrar for approval of its 
nominee company.  
 
(3) The Memorandum and Articles of Association of a nominee company must preclude it fr om incurring 
any liabilities other than those to persons on whose behalf it holds assets and, if any other liabilities 
are incurred in the name of the nominee company, the discretionary FSP shall be liable to meet them.  Page 5 of 9 
 
 
 
Prepared by:  
 
  
(4) The nominee company must enter into an agreement with the discretionary FSP in terms of which the 
provider must pay all expenses for and incidental to its formation, activities, management and 
liquidation, unless the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the nominee company already 
provide for such an obligation.  
(Regulation 6(4) substituted by Government Notice 297 of 2004)  
 
7. Independent nominees of administrative FSPs  
 
(1) An administrative FSP must prior to commencing business apply to the registrar for approval of its 
independent nominee which complies with regulation 9.  
 
(2) The application must be made in accordance with section 3(2) of the Act and be accompanied by the 
latest audited annual financial statements relating to the independent nominee.  
 
(3) The administra tive FSP remains responsible for ensuring that its independent nominee executes its 
duties in accordance with these Regulations.  
 
8. Written agreement with independent nominee  
 
(1) The written agreement between the administrative FSP and its independent nominee must be 
approved by the registrar.  
 
(2) If the administrative FSP gives or receives notice of termination of the agreement for any reason, the 
FSP must at once inform the registrar thereof.  
 
(3) The administrative FSP must within 30 days after givi ng or receiving such notice apply to the registrar 
in the manner contemplated in section 3(2) of the Act, for approval of a replacement independent 
nominee.  
 
9. Requirements for independent nominee  
 
(1) More than 50% of the directors, trustees or other per sons responsible for the management and control 
of the independent nominee, must be persons independent not only from the  administrative FSP, but 
also from companies within the same group as the FSP: Provided that persons holding office in or 
representing the FSP in a professional or non -professional capacity, excluding a person acting only in 
a non -executive director capacity in one of the companies within the group, are not deemed 
independent for the purposes of this subregulation.  
 
(2) The independent no minee must be structured in such a way that clients' investments are at all times 
protected from its creditors or those of the administrative FSP and anyone else, especially if the 
nominee is sequestrated or wound -up. Page 6 of 9 
 
 
 
Prepared by:  
 
  
10. Duties of independent nominee  
 
(1) The investments of clients, as recorded by a product supplier (excluding cash held in a separate bank 
account as contemplated in the General Code of Conduct for Authorised Financial Services Providers 
and Representatives, 2003, as published in the Gazett e) must be held in the name of the independent 
nominee on behalf of such clients, except in instances where because of the nature of a specific client, 
such registration is prohibited by other legislation.  
 
(2) The independent nominee must satisfy itself a nd submit a written statement to the registrar, within 
three months after the financial year end of the administrative FSP for which it acts, that - 
 
(a) the FSP has adequate procedures in place for ensuring that proper reconciliation, of the number 
of investments held in its name and reflected in the client records of the FSP, and the number of 
investments reflected in the records of the collective investment scheme or company, takes 
place on an ongoing basis;  
 
(b) such procedures are followed by the FS P; 
 
(c) procedures are implemented by the independent nominee in order to ensure that the duties 
stipulated in this regulation are carried out on a continuous basis;  
 
(d) summarises the nature of the errors and or difficulties that impacted on the ability of the FSP to 
conduct its business in accordance with these Regulations during the year under review; and  
 
(e) highlights the co -operation or lack thereof extended by the FSP to the independent nominee 
during the year under review.  
 
(3) The independent nom inee must maintain fidelity guarantee and professional indemnity insurance 
sufficient to cover the risk of losses due to fraud, dishonesty and negligence that can reasonably be 
expected in an organisation of the size and complexity of the nominee and with due regard to the 
relationship with the administrative FSP concerned.  
 
(4) 
(a) Where an administrative FSP ceases to conduct business or its authorisation as a financial 
services provider lapses or is withdrawn, or its business is wound up or liquidated, t he 
independent nominee of the FSP must with regard to investments, transfer the investments out 
of the bulk account of the independent nominee held with the relevant product supplier, into an 
account held in the name of a client concerned with that product  supplier or the independent 
nominee of another administrative FSP: Provided that where the client is a long -term insurer as 
defined in section 1(1) of the Long -term Insurance Act, 1998 (Act No. 52 of 1998), or a pension 
fund organisation as defined in sec tion 1(1) of the Pension Funds Act, 1956 (Act No. 24 of Page 7 of 9 
 
 
 
Prepared by:  
 
 1956), the transfer of the investments will be subject to the contract with the relevant insurer 
and the Long -term Insurance Act, 1998, or the rules of the relevant pension fund organisation 
and the P ension Funds Act, 1956, as the case may be.  
 
(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) apply with the necessary changes where the mandate of an 
administrative FSP is terminated, in which case the FSP must ensure that instructions by clients 
concerned for the tra nsfers are carried out.  
 
11. Enforcing court orders  
 
The provisions of section 4(4)(b) of the Act apply with the necessary changes to any nominee 
company and independent nominee where the registrar is of the opinion on the basis of information 
available to  the registrar that prejudice contemplated in that section has occurred or may occur.  
 
12. Construction of certain references  
 
A reference in any law or document to an independent custodian, an investment manager or a linked 
investment services provider (LISP) must, unless clearly inappropriate or inconsistent with a provision 
of the Act, be construed as a reference to an independent nominee, a discretionary FSP and an 
administrative FSP, respectively.  
 
CHAPTER VI  
MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN FOREX SERVICE S PROVIDERS AND CLEARING FIRMS  
(Section 35(1)(d) and (e) of Act)  
 
13. Definitions  
 
In this Chapter - 
 
"authorisation"  means authorised, licensed, approved or registered;  
 
"Forex Code"  means the Code of Conduct for Authorised Financial Services Providers, and their 
Representatives, involved in Forex Investment Business , 2003.  
 
Approval of foreign entities  
 
14. Procedure  
 
A forex services provider seeking, in accordance with a provision of the Forex Code, an approval by 
the Registrar of a clearing firm or a foreign forex services provider, must submit an application for 
approval to the Registrar in accordance with section 3(2) of the Act, containing at least the following 
information:  Page 8 of 9 
 
 
 
Prepared by:  
 
  
(a) Full particulars as regards the name and physical location and all other identification particulars 
of the relevant clearing firm or foreign forex services provider:  
 
(b) full particulars as regards any authorisation required by such firm or provider f or the conduct of 
business in the country in which it is located, and of the terms of any such authorisation so 
granted: and  
 
(c) full particulars as regards the nature of the regulatory environment under which the firm or 
provider operates in the country concerned.  
 
15. Requirements  
 
It is a requirement for the granting of approval by the Registrar of any application contemplated in 
regulation 14, that the regulatory framework of the country in which the clearing firm or provider is 
located must, to the sa tisfaction of the Registrar, be substantively of the same nature and standing as 
that obtaining in respect of the applicant in the Republic.  
 
16. Granting or refusal of approval  
 
(1) The Registrar may, on consideration of any application contemplated in re gulation 14, require any 
further information from the applicant deemed necessary by the Registrar, and may after consideration 
of all available information but subject to the provisions of these Regulations, grant or refuse the 
application.  
 
(2) Where the Registrar has decided to refuse the application, the Registrar must before finally deciding 
thereon, afford the applicant concerned a reasonable opportunity to respond to the reasons for refusal 
as determined by the Registrar and disclosed to the applicant . 
 
17. Interpretation  
 
A reference in any law or document to a forex broker, an introducing forex broker, forex money 
manager, forex investment manager, forex advisor, forex market maker must, unless clearly 
inappropriate or inconsistent with a provision o f the Act, be construed as a reference to a forex 
services provider.  
(New Chapter VI inserted by Government Notice 297 of 2004)  
 
CHAPTER VI I 
MISCELLANEOUS  
 
18. Penalties  
 Page 9 of 9 
 
 
 
Prepared by:  
 
 A person who contravenes or fails to comply with a provision of these Regulations is guilty of an 
offence and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding R500 000 or imprisonment for a period not 
exceeding five years, or to both such fine and such imprisonment.  
(Regulation 13 renumbered to 18 by Government Notice 297 of 2004)  
 
19. Powers of registrar to call for information  
 
Any authorised financial service provider and any particular nominee company or independent 
nominee referred to in Chapter V must furnish the registrar with such information regarding the 
relevant shareholders, directo rs, trustees and senior employees, or regarding their operations, as the 
registrar may from time to time in writing reasonably require from any of them.  
(Regulation 14 renumbered to 19 by Government Notice 297 of 2004)  
 
20. Short title  
 
These Regulations a re called The Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Regulations, 2003.  
(Regulation 15 renumbered to 20 by Government Notice 297 of 2004)  
(Chapter VI renumbered to VII by Government Notice 297 of 2004)  
 